 
 
   Practical Cooking and Dinner Giving. A
Treatise Containing Practical Instructions in Cooking; in the Combination and
Serving of Dishes; and in the Fashionable Modes of Entertaining at Breakfast,
Lunch, and Dinner.  Henderson, Mary
Foote  Cookery,
American.  Setting the Table and Serving the Dinner.
The Dinner Party. Cooking as an Accomplishment. Breakfast. Lunch. Gentlemen's
Suppers. Evening Parties. Something about Economy. Directions and Explanations.
Cooking Utensils. Bread, and Breakfast Cakes. Tea. Coffee. Chocolate. Cocoa.
Soup. Fish. Shell-fish. Sauces. Beef. Veal. Sweet-breads. Mutton. Lamb. Pork.
Poultry. Geese, Ducks, and Game. Vegetables. Shells, or Coquilles. Potting.
Macaroni. Eggs. Salads. Fritters. Pastry. Canning. Preserves. Pickles and
Catchups. Cheese. Sweet Sauces for Puddings. Puddings and Custards. Bavarian
Creams. Desserts of Rice. Wine Jellies. Cake. Candies. Ices. Cookery for the
Sick. Some Dishes for "Baby". How to Serve Fruits. Beverages. Suitable
Combination of Dishes. Serving of Wines. To Prepare Company Dinners. English
and French Glossary. General Index.  New York:
Harper &#38; Brothers  Electronic edition created by
Digital &#38; Multimedia Center, Michigan State University Libraries, East
Lansing, Michigan, 2002-2003.  Supplementary
material by Jan Longone, Anne-Marie Rachman, Peter Berg, Yvonne Lockwood, and
Val
Berryman  1876  Text  xml-external-parsed-entity  gif  quicktime  http://digital.lib.msu.edu/cookbooks/practicalcooking/pcdg.xml  OCLC
3728496  en  Digitized as part of
"Feeding America: The Historic American Cookbook Project." Michigan State
University Libraries, East Lansing, Michigan, 2002-2003.
http://digital.lib.msu.edu/cookbooks/  United
States  Nineteenth century  The
book digitized here was published in the United States before 1923 and is in
the public domain according to U.S. copyright law. The digital version and
supplementary materials are made available for all educational
uses.    
   An attractive
arrangement of food-filled platters, set on a table in front of a standard
place setting.    
   
  Handwritten
inscription 
 Respectfully presented to the best of Cooks. Mrs. 
 Anna M. Standish  by her 
 friend  W.L.P. May 1st 1878.     
    
   Table set for
Serving from the Side.  A diagram of a round table set for
six, with five dishes arranged in the
middle.    
   Table set for
Serving on the Table.  A diagram of a round table set for
six, with five main dishes and four side dishes arranged in the middle of the
table. A large oval platter, some knives for carving, and a stack of plates are
placed in front of the place setting nearest the
bottom.    
   
  PRACTICAL
COOKING AND DINNER GIVING.  A TREATISE CONTAINING PRACTICAL
INSTRUCTION IN COOKING; IN THE COM- BINATION AND SERVING OF DISHES;
AND IN THE FASHIONABLE MODES OF EN- TERTAINING AT BREAKFAST, LUNCH,
AND DINNER.  By MRS. MARY F.
HENDERSON. 
 ILLUSTRATED.   A
small oval-shaped seal, in the middle of which is an illustration of a hand
passing a torch to another hand.   NEW YORK: HARPER &#38; BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS, FRANKLIN
SQUARE. 1877.   
 
 Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1876,
by HARPER &#38; BROTHERS, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress,
at Washington.   
 
 TO MY FRIEND MRS. ELLEN EWING SHERMAN, A LADY WHO
STUDIES THE COMFORTS OF HER HOUSEHOLD, THESE RECEIPTS ARE
AFFECTIONATELY  Dedicated.       
  PREFACE. 
 THE aim of this book is to indicate how to serve dishes, and to entertain
company at breakfast, lunch, and dinner, as well as to give cooking receipts.
Too many receipts are avoided, although quite enough are furnished for any
practical cook-book. There are generally only two or three really good modes of
cooking a material, and one becomes bewildered and discouraged in trying to
select and practice from books which contain often from a thousand to three
thousand receipts. 
 No claim is laid to originality. "Receipts which have not stood the test of
time and experience are of but little worth." The author has willingly availed
herself of the labors of others, and, having carefully compared existing
works--adding here and subtracting there, as experience dictated--and having
also pursued courses of study with cooking teachers in America and in Europe,
she hopes that she has produced a simple and practical book, which will enable
a family to live well and in good style, and, at the same time, with reasonable
economy. 
 The absence from previous publications of reliable
  information as to the manner of serving
meals has been noticed. Fortunately, the fashionable mode is one calculated to
give the least anxiety and trouble to a hostess. 
 Care has been taken to show how it is possible with moderate means to keep a
hospitable table, leaving each reader for herself to consider the manifold
advantages of making home, so far as good living is concerned, comfortable and
happy. 
 M. F. H. 
 ST. LOUIS, 1876.   
  CONTENTS.   PAGE  SETTING
THE TABLE AND SERVING THE DINNER.......................... 13   THE DINNER
PARTY.................................................. 27   COOKING AS AN
ACCOMPLISHMENT...................................... 30   BREAKFAST......................................................... 33   LUNCH............................................................. 36   GENTLEMEN'S
SUPPERS............................................... 39   EVENING
PARTIES................................................... 40   SOMETHING ABOUT
ECONOMY........................................... 40   DIRECTIONS AND
EXPLANATIONS....................................... 43   COOKING
UTEXSILS.................................................. 51   BREAD, AND BREAKFAST
CAKES........................................ 63   TEA............................................................... 76   COFFEE............................................................ 76   CHOCOLATE......................................................... 78   COCOA............................................................. 78   SOUP.............................................................. 78   FISH.............................................................. 99   SHELL-FISH....................................................... 113   SAUCES........................................................... 119   BEEF............................................................. 129   VEAL............................................................. 146   SWEET-BREADS..................................................... 152   MUTTON........................................................... 155   LAMB............................................................. 159   PORK............................................................. 160   POULTRY.......................................................... 166   GEESE, DUCKS, AND
GAME........................................... 180   VEGETABLES....................................................... 190   SHELLS, OR
COQUILLS.............................................. 206   POTTING.......................................................... 208   MACARONI......................................................... 209   EGGS............................................................. 212   SALADS........................................................... 219  
  PAGE  FRITTERS......................................................... 229   PASTRY........................................................... 232   CANNING.......................................................... 244   PRESERVES........................................................ 248   PICKLES AND
CATCHUPS............................................. 257   CHEESE........................................................... 262   SWEET SAUCES FOR
PUDDINGS........................................ 266   PUDDINGS AND
CUSTARDS............................................ 269   BAVARIAN
CREAMS.................................................. 282   DESSERTS OF
RICE................................................. 286   WINE
JELLIES..................................................... 290   CAKE............................................................. 294   CANDIES.......................................................... 305   ICES............................................................. 306   COOKERY FOR THE
SICK............................................. 315   SOME DISHES FOR
"BABY"........................................... 334   HOW TO SERVE
FRUITS.............................................. 336   BEVERAGES........................................................ 339   SUITABLE COMBINATION OF
DISHES................................... 342   SERVING OF
WINES................................................. 345   TO PREPARE COMPANY
DINNERS....................................... 349    ENGLISH AND FRENCH
GLOSSARY...................................... 359    GENERAL
INDEX.................................................... 365      
  PRACTICAL
COOKING, AND DINNER GIVING.   SETTING THE TABLE AND SERVING THE DINNER. 
 AN animated controversy for a long time existed as to the best mode of
serving a dinner. Two distinct and clearly defined styles, known as the English
and Russian, each having its advantages and disadvantages, were the subject of
contention. It is perhaps fortunate that a compromise between them has been so
generally adopted by the fashionable classes in England, France, and America as
to constitute a new style, which supersedes, in a measure, the other two. 
 In serving a dinner 
 &#225; la Russe,  the table is decorated by placing
the dessert in a tasteful manner around a centre-piece of flowers. This
furnishes a happy mode of gratifying other senses than that of taste; for while
the appetite is being satisfied, the flowers exhale their fragrance, and give
to the eye what never fails to please the refined and cultivated guest. 
 In this style the dishes are brought to the table already carved, and ready
for serving, thus depriving the cook of the power to display his decorative
art, and the host of his skill in carving. Each dish is served as a separate
course, only one vegetable being allowed for a course, unless used merely for
the purpose of garnishing. 
 The English mode is to set the whole of each course, often containing many
dishes, at once upon the table. Such dishes  as
require carving, after having been once placed on the dinner-table, are removed
to a side-table, and there carved by an expert servant. Serving several dishes
at one time, of course, impairs the quality of many, on account of the
impossibility of keeping them hot. This might, in fact, render some dishes
quite worthless. 
 And now, before giving the details of serving a dinner on the newer
compromise plan, I will describe the "setting" or arranging of the table, which
may be advantageously adopted, whatever the mode of serving. 
 In the first place, a round table five feet in diameter is the best
calculated to show off a dinner. If of this size, it may be decorated to great
advantage, and conveniently used for six or eight persons, without
enlargement. 
 Put a thick  baize  under the table-cloth. This is
quite indispensable. It prevents noise, and the finest and handsomest
table-linen looks comparatively thin and sleazy on a bare table. 
 Do not put starch in the napkins, as it renders them stiff and disagreeable,
and only a very little in the table-cloth. They should be thick enough, and, at
the same time, of fine enough texture, to have firmness without starch. Too
much can not be said as to the pleasant effect of a dinner, when the
table-linen is of spotless purity, and the dishes and silver are perfectly
bright. 
 Although many ornaments may be used in decorating the table, yet nothing is
so pretty and so indicative of a refined taste as flowers. If you have no 
 &#233;pergne  for them, use a 
 compotier  or raised dish, with a plate
upon the top, to hold cut flowers; or place flower-pots with blossoming plants
on the table. A net-work of wire, painted green, or of wood or crochet work,
may be used to conceal the roughness of the flower-pot. A still prettier
arrangement is to set the pot in a 
 jardini&#232;re  vase. 
 At a dinner party, place a little bouquet by the side of the plate of each
lady, in a small glass or silver  bouquet-holder.  At the
gentlemen's plates put a little bunch of three or four flowers, called a 
 boutonnt&#232;re;  in the folds of the napkin. As
  soon as the gentlemen are seated at table, they
may attach them to the left lapel of the coat. 
 Place the dessert in two or four fancy 
 dessert-dishes around the centre-piece, which,
by-the-way, should not be high enough to obstruct the view of persons sitting
at opposite sides of the table. The dessert will consist of fruits, fresh or
candied, preserved ginger, or preserves of any kind, fancy cakes, candies,
nuts, raisins, etc. 
 Put as many knives, forks, and spoons by the side of the plate of each
person as will be necessary to use in all the different courses. Place the
knives and spoons on the right side, and the forks on the left side, of the
plates. This saves the trouble of replacing a knife and fork or spoon as each
course is brought on. Many prefer the latter arrangement, as they object to the
appearance of so many knives, etc., by the sides of a plate. This is, of
course, a matter of taste. I concede the preferable appearance of the latter
plan, but confess a great liking for any arrangement which saves extra work and
confusion. 
 Place the napkin, neatly folded, on the plate, with a piece of bread an inch
thick, and three inches long, or a small cold bread roll, in the folds or on
the top of the napkin. 
 Put a glass for water, and as many wine-glasses as are necessary at each
plate. Fill the water-glass just before the dinner is announced, unless
caraffes are used. These are kept on the table all the time, well filled with
water, one caraffe being sufficient for two or three persons. All the wine
intended to be served decanted should be placed on the table, conveniently
arranged at different points. 
 At opposite sides of the table place  salt and pepper
stands,  together with the different fancy spoons, crossed by their
side, which may be necessary at private dinners, for serving dishes. 
 Select as many plates as will be necessary for all the different courses.
Those intended for cold dishes, such as salad, dessert, etc., place on the
sideboard, or at any convenient place. Have those plates intended for dessert
already prepared, with a  finger-bowl  on each plate. The 
 finger-glasses  should be half filled with water, with a
slice of lemon in each, or a geranium  leaf and one
flower, or a little 
 boutonni&#232;re:  a sprig of lemon-verbena is
pretty, and leaves a pleasant odor on the fingers after pressing it in the
bowl. In Paris, the water is generally warm, and scented with peppermint. 
 Some place folded  fruit-napkins  under each 
 finger-bowl;  others have little fancy net-work mats,
made of thread or crochet cotton, which are intended to protect handsome
painted  dessert-plates  from scratches which the 
 finger-bowls  might possibly make. 
 The warm dishes--not 
 hot  dishes--keep in a tin closet or on the top shelf
of the range until the moment of serving. A plate of bread should also be on
the sideboard. 
 Place the  soup-tureen  (with soup that has been
brought to the boiling-point just before serving) and the 
 soup-plates  before the seat of the hostess. 
 Dinner being now ready, it should be announced by the butler or dinning-room
maid. Never ring a bell for a meal. Bells do very well for country inns and
steamboats, but in private houses the 
 m&#233;nage  should be conducted with as little
noise as possible. 
 With these preliminaries, one can see that it requires very little trouble
to serve the dinner. There should be no confusion or anxiety about it. It is a
simple routine. Each dish is served as a separate course. The butler first
places the pile of plates necessary for the course before the host or hostess.
He next sets the dish to be served before the host or hostess, just beyond the
pile of plates. The soup, salad, and dessert should be placed invariably before
the hostess, and every other dish before the host. As each plate is ready, the
host puts it upon the small  salver  held by the butler,
who then with his own hand places this and the other plates in a similar manner
on the table before each of the guests. If a second dish is served in the
course, the butler, putting in it a spoon, presents it on the left side of each
person, allowing him to help himself. As soon as any one has finished with his
plate, the butler should remove it immediately, without waiting for others to
finish. This would take too much time. When all the plates are removed, the
butler should bring on the next course. It is not necessary to use
  the  crumb-scraper  to clean
the cloth until just before the dessert is served. He should proceed in the
same manner to distribute and take off the plates until the dessert is served,
when he can leave the room. 
 This is little enough every-day ceremony for families of the most moderate
pretensions, and it is also enough for the finest dinner party, with the simple
addition of more waiters, and distribution of the work among them. It is well
that this simple ceremony should be daily observed, for many reasons. The
dishes themselves taste better; moreover, the cook takes more pride, and is
more particular to have his articles well cooked, and to present a better
appearance, when each dish is in the way subjected to a special regard: and is
it not always preferable to have a few well-cooked dishes to many indifferently
and carelessly prepared? At the same time, each dish is in its perfection, hot
from the fire, and ready to be eaten at once; then, again, one has the benefit
of the full flavor of the dish, without mingling it with that of a multiplicity
of others. There is really very little extra work in being absolutely
methodical in every-day living. With his habit, there ceases to be any anxiety
in entertaining. There is nothing more distressing at a dinner company than to
see a hostess ill at ease, or to detect an interchange of nervous glances
between her and the servants. A host and hostess seem insensibly to control the
feelings of all the guests, it matters not how many there may be. In
well-appointed houses, a word is not spoken at the dinner between the hostess
and attendants. What necessity, when the servants are in the daily practice of
their duties? 
 If one has nothing for dinner but soup, hash, and lettuce, put them on the
table in style: serve them in three courses, and one will imagine it a much
better dinner than if carelessly served. 
 Let it be remembered that the above is the rule prescribed for every-day
living. With large dinner parties, the plan might be changed, in one respect, 
 i.e.,  in having the dishes, in courses, put on the
table for exhibition, and then taken off, to be carved quickly and delicately
at a side-table by an experienced butler. This gives the host time to entertain
his guests at his ease, instead  of being absorbed
in the fatiguing occupation of carving for twelve or fourteen people. 
 These rules in France constitute an invariable and daily custom for private
dinners, as well as for those of greater pretensions. Every thing is served
there also as a separate course, even each vegetable, unless used as a garnish.
In America and England this plan is not generally liked, although in both these
countries it is adopted by many. Americans like, at least, one vegetable with
each substantial, a taste, it is to be hoped, that will not be changed by the
dictates of fashion. Then, if dishes are to be carved at a side-table, the
one-vegetable plan causes the placing of the principal dish on the table before
carving to appear more sensible. 
 When the butler places a dish on the table, and tarries a moment or so for
every one to look at it, if it does not happen to be so very attractive in
appearance the performance seems very absurd; but when, after putting on the
substantial dish, he places a vegetable dish at the other end of the table, his
taking the substantial to carve seems a more rational proceeding. 
 I would suggest, when there is only one dish for a course, which it to be
taken off the table to be carved, that the dish should be put on first; then,
that the butler should return for the plates, instead of placing the plates on
first, as should be done in all other cases. 
 At small dinners, I would not have the butler to be carver. It is a graceful
and useful accomplishment for a gentleman to know how to carve well. At small
dinners, where the dishes can not be large, the attendant labor must be light;
and, in this case, does it not seem more hospitable and home-like for the
gentleman to carve himself? Does it not disarm restraint, and mark the only
difference there is between home and hotel dinners? 
 In "Gastronomie," M. M. believes in a compromise on the carving question. He
say, "There were professional carvers, and this important art was anciently
performed at the sound of music, and with appropriate gesticulations. We wish
our modern gourmands would follow the very good example of Trimalchio
  in this respect, and, if they must have their
viands carved on the sideboard by servants, take care that, like his carvers,
they are trained to his art. We shall take the opportunity of entering our
protest against an innovation which is going too far. That some of the more
bulky pieces, the 
 pi&#232;ces de r&#233;sistance,  should be placed
on the sideboard, well and good, though even to this Addison objected, and not
without reason; but that the fish and the game should be both bestowed and
distributed, like rations to paupers, by attendants, who, for the most part,
can not distinguish between the head and the tail of a mullet, the flesh and
fin of a turbot, etc., is enough to disturb the digestion of the most tolerant
gastronome. We must say that we like to see our dinner, especially the fish,
and to see every part of it, in good hands." 
 Then, again, without paying a high price, one can not secure a waiter who is
a good carver. I am almost inclined to say one must possess the luxury of a
French waiter for carving at the side-table. English waiters are good. The
Irish are generally too awkward. Negroes are too slow. The French are both
graceful and expeditious. 
 Well, what can be done, then, when one has a dinner party, with no expert
carver, and the dishes are too large for the host to attempt? I would advise in
this case that the dinner should be served from the side. A very great majority
of large and even small dinners are served in this manner. 
 The table, as usual, is decorated with flowers, fruits, etc., but the
dishes( plats ) are not placed upon it; consequently
the host has no more duty to perform in the serving of the dinner than the
guest. A plate is placed on the table before each person, then the dish,
prettily decorated or neatly carved, if necessary, is presented to the left
side, so that each person may help himself from the dish. When these plates are
taken off, they are replaced by clean ones, and the dish of the next course is
presented in like manner. Many prefer to serve every course from the side, as I
have just indicated; others make an exception of the dessert, which the hostess
may consider a pretty acquisition to the table, while the dish should not be an
awkward one to serve.  
 Some proper person should be stationed in the kitchen or butler's pantry to
carve and to see that the dishes are properly decorated. If the hostess should
apprehend unskillfulness in carving, the dinner might be composed of chops,
ribs, birds, etc., which require no cutting. 
 There are several hints about serving the table, which I will now specify
separately, in order to give them the prominence they deserve. 
 1st. The waiters should be expeditious without seeming to be in a hurry. A
dragging dinner is most tiresome. In France, the dishes and plates seem to be
changed almost by magic. An American senator told me that at a dinner at the
Tuileries, at which he was present, twenty-five courses were served in an hour
and a half. The whole entertainment, with the after-dinner coffee, etc., lasted
three hours. Upon this occasion, a broken dish was never presented to the view
of a guest. One waiter would present a dish, beautifully garnished or
decorated; and if the guest signified assent, a plate with some of the same
kind of food was served him immediately from the broken dish at the
side-table. 
 Much complaint has been made by persons accustomed to dinners abroad of the
tediousness of those given in Washington and New York, lasting, as they often
do, from three to five hours. It is an absolute affliction to be obliged to sit
for so long a time at table. 
 2d. Never overload a plate nor oversupply a table. It is a vulgar
hospitality. At a small dinner, no one should hesitate to ask for more, if he
desires it; it would only be considered a flattering tribute to the dish. 
 At large companies, where there is necessarily a greater variety of dishes,
the most voracious appetite must be satisfied with a little of each. Then, do
not supply more than is absolutely needed; it is a foolish and unfashionable
waste. "Hospitality is not to be measured by the square inch and calculated by
cubic feet of beef or mutton." 
 At a fashionable dinner party, if there are twelve or fourteen guests, there
should be twelve or fourteen birds, etc., served on the table--one for each
person. If uninvited persons should  call, the
servant could mention at the door that madam has company at dinner. A sensible
person would immediately understand that the general machinery would be upset
by making an appearance. At small or private dinners, it would be, of course,
quite a different thing. 
 The French understand better than the people of any other nation how to
supply a table. "Their small family dinners are simply gems of perfection.
There is plenty for every person, yet every morsel is eaten. The flowers or
plants are fresh and odoriferous; the linen is a marvel of whiteness; the
dishes are few, but perfect of their kind." 
 When you invite a person to a family dinner, do not attempt too much. It is
really more elegant to have the dinner appear as if it were an every-day affair
than to impress the guest, by an ostentatious variety, that it is quite an
especial event to ask a friend to dinner. Many Americans are deterred from
entertaining, because they think they can not have company without a vulgar
abundance, which is, of course, as expensive and troublesome as it is coarse
and unrefined. 
 For reasonable and sensible people, there is no dinner more satisfactory
than one consisting first of a soup, then a fish, garnished with boiled
potatoes, followed by a roast, also garnished with one vegetable; perhaps an 
 entr&#233;e,  always a salad, some cheese, and a
dessert. This, well cooked and neatly and quietly served, is a stylish and good
enough dinner for any one, and is within the power of a gentleman or lady of
moderate means to give. "It is the exquisite quality of a dinner or a wine that
pleases us, not the multiplicity of dishes or vintages." 
 3d. Never attempt a new dish with company--one that you are not entirely
sure of having cooked in the very best manner. 
 4th. Care must be taken about selecting a company for a dinner party, for
upon this depends the success of the entertainment. Always put the question to
yourself, when making up a dinner party, Why do I ask him or her? And unless
the answer be satisfactory, leave him or her out. Invite them on some other
occasion. If they are not sensible, social, unaffected, and clever people, they
will not only not contribute to the agreeability of the dinner, but will
positively be a serious impediment  to
conversational inspiration and the general feeling of ease. Consequently, one
may consider it a compliment to be invited to a dinner party. 
 5th. Have the distribution of seats at table so managed, using some tact in
the arrangement, that there need be no confusion, when the guests enter the
dining-room, about their being seated. If the guest of honor be a lady, place
her at the right of the host; if a gentleman, at the right of the hostess. 
 If the dinner company be so large that the hostess can not easily place her
guests without confusion, have a little card on each plate bearing the name of
the person who is to occupy the place. Plain cards are well enough; but the
French design (they are designed in this country also) beautiful cards for the
purpose, illustrated with varieties of devices: some are rollicking cherubs
with capricious antics, who present different tempting viands; autumn leaves
and delicate flowers in chromo form pretty surroundings for the names on
others; yet the designs are so various on these and the bill-of-fare cards that
each hostess may seek to find new ones, while frequent dinner-goers may have
interesting collections of these mementoes, which may serve to recall the
occasions in after-years. 
 6th. If the dinner is intended to be particularly fine, have bills of fare,
one for each person, written on little sheets of paper smoothly cut in half, or
on French bill-of-fare cards, which come for the purpose. If expense is no
object, and you entertain enough to justify it, have cards for your own use
especially engraved. Have your crest, or perhaps a monogram, at the top of the
card, and forms for different courses following, so headed that you have only
to fill out the space with the special dishes for the occasion. I will give the
example of a form. The forms are often seen on the dinner-cards; yet, perhaps,
they are as often omitted, when the bills of fare are written, like those given
at the end of the book. 
 Bills of fare are generally written in French. It is a pity that our own
rich language is inadequate to the duties of a fashionable bill of fare,
especially when, perhaps, all the guests do not understand the Gallic tongue,
and the bill of fare( menu ) for their accommodation
might as well be written in  Choctaw. I will
arrange a table with French names of dishes for the aid of those preferring the
French bills of fare. I would say that some tact might be displayed in choosing
which language to employ.   An illustration of a
menu printed with the following text (in list format): MENU. Diner du 15
F&#233;vrior. Potages. Poissons. Hors-d'&#230;uvres. Relev&#233;s.
Entr&#233;es. R&#244;tis. Entrem&#234;ts. Glaces.
Dessert.  
 If you are entertaining a ceremonious company, with tastes for the
frivolities of the world, or, perhaps, foreign embassadors, use unhesitatingly
the French bills of fare; but practical uncles and substantial persons of
learning and wit, who, perhaps, do not appreciate the merits of languages which
they do not understand, might consider you demented to place one of these
effusions before them. I would advise the English bills of fare on these
occasions. 
 7th. The attendants at table should make no noise. They should wear slippers
or light boots. "Nothing so distinguishes the style of perfectly appointed
houses from vulgar imitations as the quiet, self-possessed movements of the
attendants." No word should be spoken among them during dinner, nor should they
even seem to notice the conversation of the company at table. 
 8th. The waiter should wear a dress-coat, white vest, black trousers, and
white necktie; the waiting-maid, a neat black alpaca or a clean calico dress,
with a white apron. 
 9th. Although I would advise these rules to be generally followed, 
  yet it is as pleasant a change to see an
individuality of a characteristic taste displayed in the setting of the table
and the choice of dishes as in the appointments of our houses or in matters of
toilet. At different seasons the table might be changed to wear a more
appropriate garb. It may be solid, rich, and showy, or simple, light, and
fresh. 
 10th. Aim to have a variety or change in dishes. It is as necessary to the
stomach and to the enjoyment of the table as is change of scene for the mind.
Even large and expensive state dinners become very monotonous when one finds
everywhere the same choice of dishes. Mr. Walker, in his "Original," says: "To
order dinner is a matter of invention and combination. It involves novelty,
simplicity, and taste; whereas, in the generality of dinners, there is no
character but that of routine, according to the season." 
 11th. Although many fashionable dinners are of from three or four hours'
duration, I think every minute over two hours is a "stately durance vile."
After that time, one can have no appetite; conversation must be forced. It is
preferable to have the dinner a short one than a minute too long. If one rises
from a fine dinner wearied and satiated, the memory of the whole occasion must
be tinged with this last impression. 
 12th. There is a variety of opinions as to who should be first served at
table. Many of the 
 haut monde  insist that the hostess should be first
attended to. Once, when visiting a family with an elegant establishment, who,
with cultivated tastes and years of traveling experience, prided themselves on
their 
 savoir faire,  one of the members said, "Yes, if
Queen Victoria were our guest, our sister, who presides at table, should always
be served first." The custom originated in ancient times, when the hospitable
fashion of poisoning was in vogue. Then the guests preferred to see the hostess
partake of each dish before venturing themselves. Poisoning is not now the
order of the day, beyond what is accomplished by rich pastry and plum puddings.
If there be but one attendant, the lady guest sitting at the right of the host
or the oldest lady should be first served. There are certain natural instincts
of propriety which fashion or custom can not regulate. As soon as the second
  person is helped, there should be no further
waiting before eating. 
 13th. Have chairs of equal height at table. Perhaps every one may know by
experience the trial to his good humor in finding himself perched above or sunk
below the general level. 
 14th. The selection of china for the table offers an elegant field in which
to display one's taste. The most economical choice for durability is this: put
your extra money in a handsome dessert set, all (except the plates) of which
are displayed on the table all the time during dinner; then select the
remainder of the service in plain white, or white and gilt, china. When any
dish is broken, it can be easily matched and replaced. 
 A set of china decorated in color to match the color of the dining-room is
exceedingly tasteful. This choice is not an economical one, as it is necessary
to replace broken pieces by having new ones manufactured--an expense quite
equal to the extra trouble required to imitate a dish made in another
country. 
 By far the most elegant arrangement consists in having different sets of
plates, each set of a different pattern, for every course. Here is an unlimited
field for exquisite taste. Let the meat and  vegetable
dishes  be of plated silver. Let the  &#233;pergne  or centre-peice (holding flowers or
fruit) be of silver, or perhaps it might be preferred of majolica, of bisque,
or of glass. The  majolica ware  is very fashionable now,
and dessert, oyster, and salad sets of it are exceedingly pretty. A set of
majolica plates, imitating pink shells, with a large pink-shell platter, is
very pretty, and appropriate for almost any course. 
 Oyster-plates  in French ware imitate five oyster-shells,
with a miniature cup in the centre for holding the lemon. There are other
patterns of  oyster-plates  in majolica of the most
gorgeous colors, where each rim is concaved in six shells to hold as many
oysters. The harlequin dessert sets are interesting, where every plate is not
only different in design and color, but is a specimen of different kinds of
ware as well. In these sets the Dresden, French, and painted plates of any ware
that suits the fancy are combined. 
 A set of plates for a course at dinner is unique in the Chinese
  or Japanese patterns. Dessert sets of Bohemian
glass or of cut-glass are a novelty; however, the painted sets seem more
appropriate for the dessert (fruit, etc.), white glass sets are tasteful for
jellies, cold puddings, etc., or what are called the cold 
 entrem&#234;ts  served just before the dessert
proper. 
 But it seems difficult, in entering the Colamores' and other large places of
the kind in New York, to know what to select, there are such myriads of
exquisite plates, table ornaments, and fairy-lands of glass. 
 I consider the table ornaments in silver much less attractive than those in
fancy ware. There are lovely maidens in bisque, reclining, while they hold
painted oval dishes for a jelly, a Bavarian cream, or for flowers or fruit;
cherub boys in majolica, tugging away with wheelbarrows, which should be loaded
with flowers; antique water-jugs;  cheese-plates  in
Venetian glass; clusters of lilies from mirror bases to hold flowers of 
 bonbons;  tripods of dolphins, with great pink
mouths, to hold salt and pepper. 
 If a lady, with tastes to cultivate in her family, can afford elegancies in
dress, let her retrench in that, and bid farewell to all her ugly and insipid
white china; let wedding presents consist more of these ornaments (which may
serve to decorate any room), and less of silver 
 salt-cellars,   pepper-stands,  and 
 pickle-forks.  
 Senator Sumner was a lover of the ceramic art. His table presented a
delightful study to the connoisseur, with its different courses of plates, all
different and 
 recherch&#233;  in design. Nothing aroused this
inimitable host at a dinner party from his literacy labors more effectually
than a special announcement to him by Marley of the arrival from Europe of a
new set of quaint and elegant specimens of China ware. He would repair to New
York on the next train. 
 15th. I will close these suggestions by copying from an English book a
practical drill exercise for serving at table. The dishes are served from the
side-table. 
 "Let us suppose a table laid for eight persons, dressed in its best; as
attendants, only two persons--a butler and a footman, or one of these, with a
page or neat waiting-maid; and let us  suppose some
one stationed outside the door in the butler's pantry to do nothing but fetch
up, or hand, or carry off dishes, one by one:   While guests are being seated, person from
outside brings up soup;  Footman receives soup at
door;  Butler serves it out;  Footman hands it;  Both change
plates.  Footman takes out soup, and receives fish at
door; while butler hands wine;  Butler serves out
fish;  Footman hands it (plate in one hand, and sauce
in the other);  Both change plates.  Footman brings
in entr&#233;e,  while butler hands
wine;  Butler hands 
 entr&#233;e;   Footman
hands vegetables;  Both change plates,  Etc., etc.  
 "The carving of the joint seems the only difficulty. However, it will not
take long for an expert carver to cut eight pieces."    THE DINNER PARTY. 
 IT is very essential, in giving a dinner party, to know precisely how many
guests one is to entertain. It is a serious inconvenience to have any doubt on
this subject. Consequently, it is well to send an invitation, which may be in
the following form:   An illustration of an
invitation card printed with the following text: Mrs. Smith requests the
pleasure of Mr. Jones's company at dinner, on Thursday, January 5th, at seven
o'clock. R. S. V. P. 12 New York Avenue, January 2d,
1576.  
 The capital letters constitute the initials of four French words, meaning,
"Answer, if you please" ( R&#233;pondez s'il vous
plait ). The person thus invited must not fail to reply at once,
  sending a messenger to the door with the note. It
is considered impolite to send it by post. 
 If the person invited has any doubt about being able to attend the dinner at
the time stated, he should decline the invitation at once. He should be
positive one way or the other, not delaying the question for consideration more
than a day at the utmost. If Mr. Jones should then decline, he might reply as
follows:   An illustration of a reply card printed
with the following text: Mr. Jones regrets that he is unable to accept Mrs.
Smith's polite invitation for Thursday evening. 8 Thirty-seventh Street,
January 3d.  
 Or,   An illustration of a reply card printed
with the following text: Mr. Jones regrets that a previous engagement prevents
his acceptance of Mrs. Smith's polite invitation for Thursday evening.
Thirty-seventh Street, January 3d.  
 A prompt and decided answer of this character enables Mrs. Smith to supply
the place with some other person, thereby preventing that most disagreeable
thing, a vacant chair at table. 
 If the invitation be accepted, Mr. Jones might say in his
note:   An illustration of a reply card printed
with the following text: Mr. Jones accepts, with pleasure, Mrs. Smith's
invitation for Thursday evening. Thirty-seventh Street, January
2d.  
 The more simple the invitation or reply, the better. Do not attempt any
high-flown or original modes. Originality is most charming on most occasions;
this is not one of them. 
 In New York, many, I notice, seem to think it elegant to use the French
construction of sentences in formal notes: for instance, they are particular to
say, "the invitation of Mrs. Smith," instead of "Mrs. Smith's invitation;" and
"2d January,"  instead of "January 2d." In writing
in the French language, the French construction of sentences would seem
eminently proper. One might be pardoned for laughing at an English
construction, if ignorance were not the cause. So, when one writes in English,
let the sentences be concise, and according to the rules of the language. 
 On the appointed day, the guest should endeavor to arrive at the house not
exceeding ten minutes before the time fixed for dinner; and while he avoids a
too early arrival, he should be equally careful about being tardy. 
 It is enough to disturb the serenity and good temper of the most amiable
hostess during the whole evening for a guest to delay her dinner, impairing it,
of course, to a great extent. She should not be expected to wait over fifteen
minutes for any one. Perhaps it would be as well for her to order dinner ten
minutes after the appointed hour in her invitation, to meet the possible
contingency of delay on the part of some guest. 
 When the guests are assembled in the drawing-room, if the company be large,
the host or hostess can quietly intimate to the gentleman what ladies they will
respectively accompany to the dining-room. After a few moments of conversation
and introductions, the dinner is to be announced, when the host should offer
his arm to the lady guest of honor, the hostess taking the arm of the gentleman
guest of honor; and now, the host leading the way, all should follow; the
hostess, with her escort, being the last to leave the drawing-room. They should
find their places at table with as little confusion as possible, not sitting
down until the hostess is seated. After dinner is over, the hostess giving the
signal by moving back her chair, all should leave the dining-room. The host may
then invite the gentleman to the smoking-room or library. The ladies should
repair to the drawing-room. A short time thereafter (perhaps in half an hour),
the butler should bring to the drawing-room the tea-service on a 
 salver,  with a  cake-basket  filled
with fancy biscuits, or rather crackers or little cakes. 
 Placing them on the table, he may then announce to the host that tea is
served. The gentlemen join the ladies; and, after a chat of a few minutes over
the tea, all of the guests may take  their
departure. If the attendant is a waiting-maid, and the tea-service rather
heavy, she might bring two or three cups filled with tea, and a small 
 sugar-bowl  and  cream-pitcher, also
the  cake-basket,  on a small 
 salver;  and when the cups are passed, return for
more. 
 I do not like the English fashion, which requires the ladies to retire from
the table, leaving the gentlemen to drink more wine, and smoke. Enough wine is
drunk during dinner. English customs are admirable, generally, and one
naturally inclines to adopt them; but in this instance I do not hesitate to
condemn and reject a custom in which I see no good, but, on the contrary, a
temptation to positive evil. The French reject it; let Americans do the
same.    COOKING AS AN
ACCOMPLISHMENT. 
 THE reason why cooking in America is, as a rule, so inferior is not because
American women are less able and apt than the women of France, and not because
the American men do not discuss and appreciate the merits of good cooking and
the pleasure of entertaining friends at their own table; it is merely because
American women seem possessed with the idea that it is not the fashion to know
how to cook; that, as an accomplishment, the art of cooking is not as
ornamental as that of needle-work or piano-playing. I do not undervalue these
last accomplishments. A young lady of 
 esprit  should understand them; but she should
understand, also, the accomplishment of cooking. A young lady can scarcely have
too many accomplishments, for they serve to adorn her home, and are attractive
and charming, generally. But of them all--painting, music, fancy work, or
foreign language--is there one more fascinating and useful, or one which argues
more intelligence in its acquisition than the accomplishment of cooking? 
 What would more delight Adolphus than to discover that his pretty 
 fianc&#233;e,  Julia, was an accomplished cook;
that with her dainty fingers she could gracefully dash off a creamy omelet, and
by miraculous man&#230;uvres could produce to his astonished
  view a dozen different kaleidoscopic omelets, 
 aux fines herbes, aux hu&#238;tres, aux petits pois, aux
tomates,  etc.; and not only that, but scientific croquettes, mysterious
soups, delicious salads, marvelous sauces, and the hundred and one savory
results of a little artistic skill? Delighted Adolphus--if a sensible man, and
such a woman should have no other than a sensible man--would consider this as
the 
 chef-d'&#230;uvre  of all her accomplishments, as he
regarded her the charming assurance of so many future comforts. 
 From innate coquetry alone the French women appreciate the powers of their
dainty table. Cooking is an art they cultivate. Any of the 
 haut monde  are proud to originate a new dish, many
famous ones doing them credit in bearing their names. 
 One thing is quite evident in America--that the want of this ornamental and
useful information is most deplorable. The inefficiency, in this respect, of
Western and Southern women, brought up under the system of slavery, is somewhat
greater than that of the women of the Northern and Eastern States; however, as
a nation, there is little to praise in this regard in any locality. Professor
Blot endeavored to come to the rescue. Every 
 man  applauded his enterprise; yet I can myself
testify to the indifference of the women--his classes for the study of cookery
numbering by units where they should have numbered by hundreds. He soon
discontinued his instructive endeavors, and at last died a poor man. 
 There is little difficulty abroad in obtaining good cooks at reasonable
prices, who have pursued regular courses of instruction in their trade: not so
in America. Hospitality demands the entertaining of friends at the social
board; yet it is almost impossible to do so in this country in an acceptable
manner, unless the hostess herself not only has a proper idea of the serving of
a table, but of the art of cooking the dishes themselves as well. In some of
the larger cities, satisfactory dinners and trained waiters may be provided at
an enormous cost at the famous restaurants, where the meal may appear home-like
and elegant. But unfortunate is the woman, generally, who wants to do "the
correct thing," and, wishing to entertain at dinner, relies upon the sense, good taste, and management of
the proprietor of a restaurant. She may confidently rely upon one thing--an
extortionate bill; and, generally, as well, upon a vulgar display, which poorly
imitates the manner of refined private establishments. 
 However, "living for the world" seems very contemptible in comparison with
the importance of that wholesome, satisfactory, every-day living which so
vitally concerns the health and pleasure of the family circle. 
 But why waste time in asserting these self-evident facts? They are
acknowledged and proclaimed every day by suffering humanity; yet the difficulty
is not remedied. Is there a remedy, then? Yes. This is a free country, yet Dame
Fashion is the Queen. Make it the fashion, then, that the art and science of
cookery shall be classed among the necessary accomplishments of every
well-educated lady. This is a manifest duty on the part of ladies of influence
and position, even if the object be only for the benefit of the country at
large. Let these ladies be accomplished artists in cookery. The rest will soon
follow. There will be plenty of imitators. 
 Many ladies of rank in England have written valuable books on cookery, and
on the effects resulting from the want of the knowledge. None wrote better than
Lady Morgan. Speaking of clubs, she says: 
 "The social want of the times, however, brought its remedy along with it,
and the reaction was astounding.... Then it was that clubs arose--homes of
refuge to destitute celibacy, chapels of ease to discontented husbands. There,
men could dine, like gentlemen and Christians, upon all the 
 friandises  of the French kitchen, much cheaper and
far more wholesomely than at their own tables upon the tough, half-sodden
fibres of the national roast and boiled, or on the hazardous resources of hash;
gravy soup, and marrow puddings. 
 "Moral England gave in. The English 'home'--that temple of the heart, that
centre of all the virtues--was left to the solitary enjoyment of the English
wives. 
 "To your 
 casseroles,  then, women of Britain! Would you, with
a falconer's voice, lure your faithless tassels back again?
  Apply to the practical remedy of your wrongs;
proceed to the reform of your domestic government, and turn your thoughts to
that art which, coming into action every day in the year during the longest
life, includes within its circles the whole philosophy of economy and order,
the preservation of good health, and the tone of good society--and all
peculiarly within your province."    BREAKFAST. 
 AFTER a fast of twelve or thirteen hours, the system requires something
substantial as preparation for the labors of the day; consequently, I consider
the American breakfasts more desirable for an active people than those of
France or England. 
 In France, the first breakfast consists merely of a cup of coffee and a
roll. A second breakfast, at eleven o'clock, is more substantial, dishes being
served which may be eaten with a fork ( d&#233;jeuner
&#224; la fourchette ), as a chop with a potato 
 souffl&#233;.  No wonder there are 
 caf&#233;s  in Paris where American breakfasts are
advertised, for it takes one of our nationality a very short time to become
dissatisfied with this meagre first meal. 
 In England, breakfast is a very informal meal. After some fatiguing
occasion, if one should desire the luxury of an extra nap, he is not
mercilessly expected at the table simply because it is the breakfast-hour; for
there the breakfast-hour is any time one chances to be ready for it. Gentlemen
and ladies read their papers and letters in the breakfast-room--a practice
which, of course, is more agreeable for guests than convenient for servants.
However, if one can afford it, why not? This habit requires a little different
setting of the table. It is decorated with flowers or plants, and upon it are
placed several kinds of breads, fruits, melons, potted meats, and freshest of
boiled eggs. But the substantial dishes must be served from the sideboard,
where they are kept in silver  chafing-dishes  over 
 spirit-lamps.  As members of the family or guests enter,
the servant helps them each once, then leaves the room. If they have further
wants, they help themselves or ring a bell.  
 The American breakfast is all placed upon the table, unless oatmeal porridge
should be served as a first course. Changes of plates are also necessary when
cakes requiring sirup or when melons or fruits are served. 
 Let us now set the American breakfast-table. 
 The  coffee-urn  and silver service necessary are
placed in a straight line before the hostess. The one or two kinds of
substantials are set before the host; vegetables or 
 entr&#233;es  are placed on the sides. Do not have
them askew. It is quite as easy for an attendant to place a dish in a straight
line as in an oblique angle with every other dish on the table. 
 I advocate the general use of oatmeal porridge for breakfast. Nothing is
more wholesome, and nothing more relished after a little use. If not natural,
the taste should be acquired. It is invaluable for children, and of no less
benefit for persons of mature years. Nearly all the little Scotch and Irish
children are brought up on it. When Queen Victoria first visited Scotland, she
noticed the particularly ruddy and healthy appearance of the children, and,
after inquiry about their diet and habits, became at once a great advocate for
the use of porridge. She used it for her own children, and it was at once
introduced very generally into England. Another of its advantages is that
serving it as a first course enables the cook to prepare many dishes, such as
steaks, omelets, etc., just as the family sit down to breakfast; and when the
porridge is eaten, she is ready with the other dishes "smoking hot." 
 It would be well if more attention were given to breakfasts than is usually
bestowed. The table might have a fresher look with flowers or a flowering plant
in the centre. The breakfast napery is very pretty now, with colored borders to
suit the color of the room, the table-cloth and napkins matching. 
 The beefsteaks should be varied, for instance, one morning with a tomato
sauce, another 
 &#224; la ma&#238;tre d'h&#244;tel,  or with a
brown sauce, or garnished with water-cresses, green pease, fried potatoes,
potato-balls, etc., instead of being always the same beefsteak, too frequently
overcooked or undercooked, and often floating in butter. 
 Melons, oranges, compotes, any and all kinds of fruits, should
  be served at breakfast. In the season, sliced
tomatoes, with a French or 
 Mayonnaise  dressing, is a most refreshing breakfast
dish. A great resource is in the variety of omelets, and with a little
practice, nothing is so easily made. One morning it may be a plain omelet;
another, with macaroni and cheese; another, with fine herbs; another, with
little strips of ham or with oysters. The English receipt on page 148 makes a
pleasant change for a veal cutlet. When chickens are no longer very young, the
receipt on page 175 (deviled chicken), with a Cunard sauce or a white sauce, is
another change. The different arrangements of meat-balls are croquettes, with
tomato, cream, apple, or brown sauces, are delicious when they are freshly and
carefully made. 
 As there are hundreds of delicious breakfast dishes, which only require a
little attention and interest to understand, how unfortunate it must be for a
man to have a wife who has nothing for breakfast but an alternation of
juiceless beefsteak, greasy and ragged mutton-chops, and swimming hash, with
unwholesome hot breads to make up deficiencies! 
 Breakfast parties are very fashionable, being less expensive than dinners,
and just as satisfactory to guests. They are served generally about ten
o'clock, although any time from ten to twelve o'clock may be chosen for the
purpose. It seems to me that ten o'clock, or even nine o'clock (it depends upon
the persons invited), is the preferable hours. Guests might prefer to retain
their strength by a repast at home if the breakfast-hour were at twelve
o'clock, and then the fine breakfast would be less appreciated. At breakfast
parties, with the exception of the silver service being on the table all the
time for tea and coffee, the dishes are served in courses precisely as for
dinner. 
 In England, breakfast parties are perhaps more in favor than lunch parties,
especially among the 
 literati.  Macaulay said, when extolling the merits
of breakfast parties as compared with all other entertainments, "Dinner parties
are mere formalities; but you invite a man to breakfast because you want to
see him. " 
 There bills of fare are given for breakfast parties, which will show the
order of different courses:    Winter Breakfast.   1st Course.--Broiled
sardines on toast, garnished with slices of lemon. Tea, coffee, or
chocolate.  2d Course.--Larded sweet-breads,
garnished with French pease. Cold French rolls or petits pains.
Sauterne.  3d Course.--Small fillets or the tender
cuts from porter-house-steaks, served on little square slices of toast, with
mushrooms.  4th Course.--Fried oysters; breakfast
puffs.  5th Course.--Fillets of grouse (each fillet
cut in two), on little thin slices of fried mush, garnished with potatoes
&#224; la Parisienne.  6th Course.--Sliced oranges,
with sugar.  7th Course.--Waffles, with maple
sirup.     Early Spring Breakfast.   1st Course.--An Havana orange for each
person, dressed on a fork (page 338).  2d
Course.--Boiled shad, ma&#238;tre d'h&#244;tel sauce; Saratoga potatoes. Tea
or coffee.  3d Course.--Lamb-chops, tomato sauce.
Ch&#226;teau Yquem.  4th Course.--Omelet, with green
pease, or garnished with parsley and thin diamonds of ham, or with shrimps,
etc., etc.  5th Course.--Fillets of beef, garnished
with water-cresses and little round radishes; muffins.  6th Course.--Rice pancakes, with maple
sirup.     Summer Breakfast.   1st Course.--Melons.  2d
Course.--Little fried perch, smelts, or trout, with a sauce Tartare, the dish
garnished with shrimps and olives. Coffee, tea, or chocolate.  3d
Course.--Young chickens, saut&#233;d, with cream-gravy, surrounded with
potatoes &#224; la neige. Claret.  4th
Course.--Poached eggs on anchovy-toast.  5th
Course.--Little fillets of porter-house-steaks, wit tomatoes &#224; la
Mayonnaise.  6th Course.--Peaches, quartered,
sweetened, and half-frozen.      LUNCH. 
 THIS is more especially a ladies' meal. If one gives a lunch party, ladies
alone are generally invited. It is an informal meal on ordinary occasions, when
every thing is placed upon the table  at once. A
servant remains in the room only long enough to serve the first round of
dishes, then leaves, supposing that confidential conversation may be desired.
Familiar friends often "happen in" to lunch, and are always to be expected. 
 Some fashionable ladies have the reputation of having every fine
lunches--chops, chickens, oysters, salads, chocolate, and many other good
things being provided; and others, just as fashionable, have nothing but a cup
of tea or chocolate, some thin slices of bread and butter, and cold meat; or,
if of Teutonic taste, nothing but cheese, crackers, and ale, thus reserving the
appetite for dinner. 
 In entertaining at lunch, the dishes are served in the same manners as for
dinner. Each dish is served as a separate course. It may be placed on the table
before the hostess, if the lunch party is not very large; but it is generally
served from the side. The table is also decorated in the same manner as for
dinner, with a centre-piece of flowers or of fruit, and with various 
 compotiers  around the centre, containing
fruits, 
 bonbons,  little fancy cakes, Indian or other
preserves, etc. Other ornaments, in Dresden china,  majolica
ware,  Venetian or French glass, etc., filled with flowers, are
often seen. Little dishes of common glass in different shapes, as crosses,
quarter-moons, etc., about an inch high (see cuts, page 58), are also filled
with flowers, and placed at symmetrical distances. As the last-mentioned
decorations are very cheap, every one may indulge in them, and consider that
there are no more beautiful ornaments, after all. 
 The lunch-table is generally covered with a colored table-cloth. 
 The principal dishes served are 
 pat&#233;s,  croquettes, shell-fish, game,
salads--in fact, all kinds of 
 entr&#233;es,  and cold desserts, or I may say
dishes are preferred which do not require carving. 
 Bouillon  is generally served as a first course in 
 bouillon  cups, which are quite like large
coffee-cups, or coffee or  tea cups  may be used, although
any dinner soup served in  soup-plates  is 
 en regle.  A cup of chocolate, with whipped cream on
the top, is often served as an another course. 
 I will give five bills of fare, reserved from five very nice little lunch
parties:     Mrs. Collier's Lunch  (February
2d).   Bouillon;
sherry.  Roast oysters on half-shell;
Sauterne.  Little vols-au-vent of
oysters.  Thin scollops, or cuts of fillet of beef,
braised; French pease; Champagne.  Chicken
croquettes, garnished with fried parsley; potato croquettes.  Cups of chocolate, with whipped cream.  Salad--lettuce dressed with tarragon.  Biscuits glace&#233;s; fruit-ices.  Fruit.  Bonbons.      Mrs. Sprague's Lunch  (March
10th).   Raw oysters
on half-shell.  Bouillon; sherry.  Little vols-au-vent of sweet-breads.  Lamb-chops; tomato sauce; Champagne.  Chicken croquettes; French pease.  Snipe; potatoes &#224; la Parisienne.  Salad of lettuce.  Neuch&#226;tel
cheese; milk wafers, toasted.  Chocolate Bavarian
cream, molded in little cups, with a spoonful of peach marmalade on each
plate.  Vanilla ice-cream; fancy cakes.  Fruit.      Mrs. Miller's Lunch  (January
6th).   Bouillon.  Deviled crabs; olives;
claret punch.  Sweet-breads &#224; la
Milanaise.  Fillets of grouse, currant jelly;
Saratoga potatoes.  Roman punch.  Fried oysters, garnished with chow-chow.  Chicken salad, or, rather, Mayonnaise of chicken.  Ramikins.  Wine jelly, and whipped
cream.  Napolitaine ice-cream.  Fruit.  Bonbons.    
  Mrs. Well's Lunch.   Bouillon;
sherry.  Fried frog's legs; French pease.  Smelts, sauce Tartare; potatoes &#224; la
Parisienne.  Chicken in 
 scallop-shells;  Champagne.  Sweet-bread croquettes; tomato sauce.  Fried cream.  Salad;
Romaine.  Welsh rare-bit.  Peaches and cream, frozen; fancy cakes.  Fruits.     Mrs. Filley's Lunch.   Mock-turtle soup; English
milk-punch.  Lobster-chops; claret.  Mushrooms in
crust.  Lamb-chops, en papillote.  Chetney of slices of baked fillet of beef.  Chocolate, with whipped cream.  Spinach on tongue slices (page 145), sauce Tartare.  Roast quail, bread sauce (page 185).  Cheese; lettuce, garnished with slices of radishes and
nasturtium blossoms, French dressing.  Mince-meat
patties; Champagne.  Ices and fancy
cakes.  Fruit.      GENTLEMEN'S
SUPPERS. 
 As ladies have exclusive lunches, gentlemen have exclusive suppers. Nearly
the same dishes are served for suppers as for lunches, although gentlemen
generally prefer more game and wine. Sometimes they like fish suppers, with two
or three or more varieties of fish, when nightmare might be written at the end
of the bill of fare. 
 If one has not a reliable cook, it is very convenient to give these
entertainments, as the hostess has a chance to station herself in the 
 cuisine,  and personally superintend the supper. 
 
 One bill of fare is given for a fish supper:    1st Course.--Raw oysters served in a
block of ice (page 113). [The ice has a pretty effect in the
gas-light.]  2d Course.--Shad, ma&#238;tre d'h&#244;tel sauce,
garnished with smelts.  3d Course.--Sweet-breads and tomato
sauce.  4th Course.--Boiled sardines, on toast.  5th
Course.--Deviled chicken, Cunard sauce.  6th Course.--Fillets of
duck, with salad of lettuce.  7th Course.--Mayonnaise of salmon,
garnished with shrimps.  8th Course.--Welsh
rare-bit.  9th Course.--Charlotte Russe.  10th
Course.--Ice-cream and cake.      EVENING
PARTIES. 
 IF people can afford to give large evening parties, it is less trouble and
more satisfactory to place the supper in the hands of the confectioner. 
 For card parties or small companies of thirty or forty persons, to meet some
particular stranger, or for literary reunions, the trouble need not be great.
People would entertain more if the trouble were less. 
 If one has a regular reception-evening, ices, cake, and chocolate are quite
enough; or for chocolate might be substituted sherry or a bowl of punch. 
 For especial occasions for a company of thirty or forty, a table prettily
set with some flowers, fruit, chicken salad, croquettes or sweet-breads and
pease, one or two or more kinds of ice-cream and cakes, is quite sufficient.
Either coffee and tea, Champagne, a bowl of punch or of eggnog, would be
sufficient in the way of beverage.    SOMETHING ABOUT ECONOMY. 
 I AM indebted to a French girl living in our family for the substance of
this chapter. Her parents being obliged to live in a most economical way in St.
Louis, still had an uncommonly  good table. One
resource was a little garden, in which small compass were raised enough onions,
tomatoes, carrots, and a few other vegetables, to nearly supply the family. A
small bed of four feet square, surrounded by a pretty border of lettuce, was
large enough for raising all necessary herbs, such as sage, summer savory,
thyme, etc. Little boxes in the kitchen windows contained growing parsley, ever
ready for use. 
 I give receipts for three of their soups--the onion, vegetable 
 Pur&#233;e,  and potato soups being most excellent,
and costing not over from five to ten cents each. One of their dinner dishes
was a heart (10 cents) stuffed, baked two or three hours, and served with a
brown gravy and an onion garnish (see receipt). Still another was a two-pound
round-steak (20 cents), spread with a bread and sage stuffing, then rolled,
tied, floured, seasoned on top, then baked, basting it often. It was a pretty
dish, with tomato sauce around it. Sometimes a cheap fish was cut in slices,
egged and bread-crumbed, fried, and garnished with fried potatoes. They had
always a salad for dinner, prepared from their border of lettuce, some cold
potatoes, cold beans, or other vegetable. A fine breakfast dish was of kidneys
(5 cents). Few Americans know how to cook kidneys, and butchers often throw
them away; yet in France they are considered a great delicacy. 
 Their 
 r&#233;pertoire  of cheap dishes was large; so
there was always a change for, at least, each day of the week. A crumb of bread
was never wasted. All odd morsels were dried in the oven, pounded, and put away
in a tin-box, ready for breading cutlets cut from any pieces of mutton or veal,
and for many other purposes. 
 Any pieces of suet or drippings were clarified and put one side, to be used
for frying. Remains of cooked vegetables of any kind were saved for soups and
sauces. Not a slice of a tomato nor leaf of a cabbage was thrown away. 
 If they had butter that was not entirely sweet, they added more salt, a
little soda, brought it to a boil on the stove, and then put it away in a
little  crock.  By allowing the settlings to remain at the
bottom, the butter became entirely sweet, and not too salt for cooking
purposes.  
 Chickens, cutlets, etc., were larded at this table. Now, just to mention the
word "larding" is to overwhelm a common cook; and to require it, is to rivet in
the minds of most housewives the entire impracticability of a whole receipt in
which it is an item. Pieces of salt pork or breakfast bacon should always be
kept in the house. A pound of it, which is not expensive, may last a long time,
as it requires very little for flavoring many things; then, if one has any idea
of sewing, or what it is to push a needle through any thing, one can lard. It
only requires a  larding-needle,  which costs fifteen
cents, and which should last a century. By placing little cut strips of pork in
the end of the needle, as is explained among "directions," then drawing the
needle through parts of the meat, leaving the pork midway, this wonderfully
difficult operation is accomplished. It is only a few minutes' pastime to lard
turkeys, chickens, birds, cutlets, sweet-breads, etc., which gives to them
flavor and style. 
 Limited in fortune as were this family, they were never without stock at
hand. Their meat for croquettes, patties, etc., had served a duty to the 
 soup-kettle.  If a chicken was to be boiled for the
table, it was thrown into the  stock-pot  while the soup
was simmering, and thus it and the chicken were both benefited. 
 Their meat dishes were often garnished with little potato-balls, cooked 
 &#224; la Parisienne,  or simply boiled. This
seemed extravagant; but as a  French vegetable-cutter 
only costs twenty-five cents, and the balls can be cut very rapidly--all the
parings boiled and mashed serving another time as potato-cakes--there was
nothing wasted, and little time lost. 
 In short, this household (and it is a sample of nearly all French families
of limited means) lived well on little more than many an American family would
throw away. 
 Let me give five bills of fare of their dinners, the second of which is
partly prepared from the remains of the first day:    Beef
soup (soup bone), 10 cents.  Veal blanquitte and
boiled potatoes (knuckle of veal), 15 cents.  Salad
of sliced tomatoes, 2 or 3 cents.  Boiled rice, with
a border of stewed small pears (green, or of common variety), 10
cents.    
   Onion or bean soup, 5 cents.  Fish (en
matelote), 15 cents.  Croquettes (made of the remains
of the cold beef-soup meat, and rice), with a tomato sauce.  Salad of cold boiled potatoes.  Fried
bread-pudding.      Potato soup.  Round steak, rolled (page 140), with baked, parboiled onions, 25
cents.  Salad of lettuce.  Apple-fritters, with sirup.      Beef
&#224; la mode, with spinach, 40 cents (enough for two dinners).  Salad of potatoes and parsley.  Rice-pudding.      Noodle
soup.  Mutton ragout, with potatoes, 25
cents.  Noodles and stuffed tomatoes.  Cheese omelet.      DIRECTIONS AND
EXPLANATIONS.   BOILING. 
 FOWLS or joints should be tied or well skewered into shape before
boiling. 
 Every thing should be 
 gently  simmered, rather than fast boiled, in order
to be tender. The water should never be allowed to stop simmering before the
article is quite done. A pudding is thus entirely ruined. 
 The kettle should be kept covered, merely raising the cover at times to
remove the scum. Boiled fowl, with a white sauce, is a favorite English dish,
and very nice it is if properly prepared.    FRYING. 
 Frying means cooking by 
 immersion  in hot fat, butter, or oil. There is no
English word for what is called frying in a spoonful of fat, first on one side, and then on the other. 
 Saut&#233;  is the French word, and should be
Anglicized. Ordinary cooks, instead of frying, invariably 
 saut&#233;  every thing. Almost every article that
is usually 
 saut&#233;d  is much better and more economical 
 fried;  as, for instance, oysters, fish, birds,
cutlets, crabs, etc. 
 The fat should always be tested before the article is immersed. A little
piece of bread may be thrown in, and if it colors quickly, the fat is ready,
and not before. The temperature of hot grease, it will be remembered, is much
greater than that of boiling water, which can not exceed a certain degree of
heat, whether it boil slow or fast. Hot grease reaches a very high degree of
heat, and consequently the surface of any thing is almost instantaneously
hardened or crisped when thrown into it. The inside is thus kept free from
grease, and is quickly cooked. An article first dipped in egg and bread-crumbs
should be 
 entirely  free from grease when thus cooked, as the
egg is hardened the instant it touches the hot grease, and the oyster,
croquette, cutlet, or sweet-bread is perfectly protected. The same fat can be
used repeatedly for frying the same thing. The fat in which fish is fried
should not be again used for any thing except fish. Professional cooks have
several frying-kettles, in which fat is kept for frying different things. A
little kettle for frying potatoes exclusively should always be at hand. 
 One will see that this style of cooking is economical, as there is very
little waste of fat; and then fried articles need no other dressing. 
 After frying fish, meat, or vegetables, let the fat stand about five
minutes; strain, and then return it to the kettle, which should always be kept
covered, after it is once cold. 
 Beef suet, salted, is quite as good for frying as lard, and is much cheaper.
It is well to purchase it by the pound, and have it rendered in the
kitchen. 
 
  TO PREPARE GREASE FOR
FRYING  ( Professor
Blot ).  
 Take  beef suet, the part around the kidneys,  or any
kind of  fat,  raw or cooked, and free of fibres,
nerves, thin skin, or bones; chop it fine; add to it whatever you may have of 
 fat   skimmed off the top
of meat soup; put it in a cast-iron or crockery kettle; set it on a moderate
fire; boil gently for fifteen minutes; skim it well during the process; take
from the fire, leave it five minutes, and then strain it; after which, put it
in pots, and keep them in a dry and cool place; cover the pots well every time
you have occasion to use, but never cover them while the grease is warm. This
grease is as good, if not better than any other to fry fish, fritters, and
other similar things, which require to be entirely covered with grease. *  
    BROILING. 
 I did not appreciate the nicety of boiling until, upon an occasion, a
gentleman invited a dinner company to a private dining-room of one of our large
restaurants, to eat a certain kind of fish, which he considered especially
fine. The host was quite out of humor to see the fish come to the table baked,
when he had ordered it broiled. The proprietor afterward explained that, for
some reason, his French cook was absent for that day, and he had no other who
could broil so large a fish. I at once realized that, after all, it must be a
delicate and difficult thing to broil a large fish, so that the centre would be
well done, and the surface not burned. The smaller and thinner the article, the
hotter should be the fire; the larger the article, the more temperate the fire,
or, rather, the greater distance it should at first be placed from it. The
fish, in this case, should have been wrapped in oiled or buttered paper. It
should have been placed rather near the fire for the first few minutes; then
removed farther away, or placed on another more moderate fire. A large 
 baking-pan  should have covered the top of the fish, to
hold the heat. When nearly done, the paper should have been removed, to allow
the surface to brown.  The following note appears at the bottom of
page 45 in the original text. 
 *The author would add a small proportion of water to
the pieces of fat. It facilitates the melting process, preserves the color, and
will all evaporate in cooking. 
 Always grease the  gridiron  well, and have it 
 hot,  before the meat is placed on it. Any thing
egged and bread-crumbed should be buttered before it is broiled. Fish should be
buttered and sprinkled with flour, which will prevent the skin from
  adhering to the 
 gridiron. Cutlets, and in fact every thing, are more
delicate buttered before boiling. A little lemon-juice is also often a nice
addition. Birds, and other things which need to be halved, should be broiled, 
 inside  first. 
 Remember that a hot, clear fire is necessary for cooking all small articles.
They should be turned often, to be cooked evenly, without being burned. 
 Never put a fork in the lean part of meat on the 
 gridiron,  as it allows the juice to escape. 
 Always cover the  gridiron  with a tin pan or a 
 baking-pan.  The sooner the meat is cooked without
burning, the better. The pans holds the heat, and often prevents a stray line
of smoke from touching the meat. 
 If the fire should be too hot, sprinkle salt over it.    ROASTING. 
 There is little use to talk about roasting, as but few will attempt it,
always considering it easier to bake instead. Indeed, there is so little demand
in many sections for stoves and ranges suited to the purpose that they are
difficult to obtain. Of course, there is no comparison between these modes of
cooking. Beef, mutton, turkeys, ducks, or birds--in fact, any kind of meat is
tenfold better roasted than baked. In Europe, all these articles are roasted;
and people there would have great contempt for a piece of beef or a turkey
baked. In New York and Philadelphia, also, at the finer establishments, the
meats are generally roasted. The trouble is little greater than to bake. It is
only necessary to have the range or stove constructed for roasting, and a tin
screen, with a spit and  jack,  to place before the coals.
Some of the  roasters  are arranged with a 
 spring-jack.  The meat is placed on the spit, and the
spring wound up, which sets the meat to revolving slowly before the fire. 
 In roasting, the meat should at first be placed near the coals, so as to
quickly harden the surface; then it should be removed back a little distance,
to be cooked through, without burning. The oftener it is basted, the better it
is. If the roast of meat is very large, it should be surrounded with a buttered
paper. 
 Just before the meat is done, it should be basted with a little
  butter or drippings, then sprinkled with flour,
and placed nearer the fire, to brown nicely, when it will take a frothy
appearance. 
 Much depends upon the management of the fire. It should be made some time
before the meat is placed for roasting, so that the coals may be bright and
hot. It should also be strong enough to last, with only the addition of an
occasional coal at the top. In fine establishments abroad, a grate for burning
coal, charcoal, or wood is made in the kitchen, for the purpose of roasting
only. This is convenient, but more expensive than roasting in ranges or stoves,
where the same fire may serve for cooking every thing.    SAUT&#233;ING. 
 As I have already said, frying implies immersing in fat or oil; but 
 saut&#233;ing  means to cook in a 
 spider  or   saut&#233;  pan,  with just enough hot fat to
keep the article, while being cooked, from sticking. The fat should always be
quite hot before placing on it any thing to cook.    BRAISING. 
 A  braising-kettle  has a deep cover, which holds
coals; consequently, the cooking is done from above as well as below. It is
almost air-tight, thus preventing evaporation, and the article to be cooked
imbibes whatever flavor one may wish to give it. 
 The article is generally cooked in stock or broth (water may be used also),
with slices of bacon, onion, carrot, etc., placed around the meat. It is a
favorite mode of cooking pigeons. An ordinary cut of beef may be made very
savory cooked in this manner, and the juice left makes a good gravy when freed
from fat. 
 If a  braising-pan  is not at hand, a common,
tight-covered saucepan answers very well without the upper coals. Except for
coloring larding on the top of the article to be braised, I do not appreciate
the value of the upper coals, anyway; and the coloring may be accomplished with
the  salamander  or hot shovel as
well.     LARDING. 
 
 Cut the firmest  bacon fat,  with a heated or very
sharp knife, into square lengths of equal size. Placing one end in a 
 larding-needle,  draw it through the skin and a small bit
of the  meat,  leaving the strip of 
 pork,  or  lardoon,  as it is
called, in the  meat.  The two ends left exposed should
be of equal length. The punctures for the lardoons should be in rows, of equal
distance apart, arranged in any fanciful way that may suit the cook. The usual
form for  larding,  however, is as shown in cut (page 57). 
    BONING. 
 
  Boning  is not a difficult operation. It only requires
time, a thin, sharp knife, and a little care. Cut off the neck, and also the
legs at the first joint. Cut the skin in a line down the middle of the back.
Now, taking first one side and then the other of the cut in the fingers,
carefully separate the flesh from the bones, sliding the knife close to the
bone. When you come to the wings and legs, it is easier to break or unjoint the
bones at the body-joint; cutting close by the bone, draw it, turning the flesh
of the legs and wings inside out. When all the bones are out, the skin and
flesh can be re-adjusted and stuffed into shape. As the leg and wing bones
require considerable time to remove, they may be left in, and the body stuffed
with  lamb or veal force-meat.  See receipt for boned 
 chicken  (page 174). It is a very pretty and delicious
dish. 
    EGG AND
BREAD CRUMBING. 
 
 Always sift the   bread or
cracker crumbs.   Whenever there are spare pieces or 
 trimmings of bread  or  broken
crackers,  dry them at once in the oven, and after pounding and
sifting, put them away in a tin can, for future use. In preparing for use, beat
the  eggs  a little. If they are to be used for sweet
dishes, such as rice croquettes, sweeten them slightly. If they are to be used
for meats, sweet-breads, oysters, etc., always  salt and
 pepper  them, and for a change, finely chopped 
 parsley  may be added. Add a small proportion of 
 milk  to the  eggs,  say a
half-cupful for two of them, or for one of them, if intended for fish
  or cutlets. Have the 
 eggs  in one plate, and the 
 bread-crumbs  in another; roll the article first in the
crumbs, then in the  eggs,  then in the crumbs again. In
the case of articles very soft, like croquettes, it will be more convenient for
one person to shape and roll them in the  eggs,  and
another, with dry hands, to roll them in the 
 bread-crumbs.  
 
 Pounded and sifted cracker-crumbs can be purchased by the pound, at bakeries
and large groceries, for the same price as whole crackers. However, it will
never be necessary to purchase cracker-crumbs, if all scraps of bread are saved
and dried. It is deplorable for a cook to throw them away. It shows that she is
either too indolent to ever learn to cook, or too ignorant of the uses of
scraps of bread to be tolerated. If she saves them for purposes of charity, let
her give fresh bread, which will be more acceptable, and save the scraps, which
are equally useful to her. Yet if the bread-crumbs when pounded and sifted are
not very fine, they are not as good as the cracker-dust.    TO COOK PUDDING IN BOILING
WATER. 
 
 Wet and  flour  the cloth before adding the 
  pudding.   In tying
in the  pudding,  leave room enough for it to swell. If
cooked in a mold, do not fill the mold quite full. Never let the 
 water  stop boiling. As it wastes away in boiling,
replenish the kettle from another containing  boiling
water.  
 
 It is better to cook these puddings (
 plum-puddings as well) in a 
 steamer  than in  boiling water. 
The principle is really the same, and there is no 
 water  soaked.    DRIED CELERY, PARSLEY, ETC., FOR
WINTER USE. 
 Celery, parsley, thyme, summer savory, sage, etc., should all be prepared
for winter use. After drying and pulverizing, put them in tin cans or glass
jars. Celery and parsley are especially valuable for soups and
gravies.    SEEDS FOR
SOUPS. 
 If the fresh or dried vegetables are not at hand, seeds, such as celery,
carrot-seed, etc., can be substituted for a flavoring.  
 
 
  TO FLAVOR WITH LEMON
ZEST. Never use the white part of the  peel of a
lemon  for flavoring. It is bitter. The little globules of oil in
the surface of the  rind  contain all the pleasant
flavor of the peel. It may be thinly pared off, avoiding the white pulp.
Professional cooks, however, rub  loaf-sugar  over the
surface. The friction breaks the oil-ducts, and the 
 sugar  absorbs the oil. It is called zest. The 
 sugar  is afterward pounded fine for certain dishes,
such as creams, 
 meringues,  etc.; or it can be simply melted in
custards and beverages. 
   THE COOK'S TABLE
OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.   1 quart of sifted flour = 1
pound.  1 quart of powdered sugar = 1 pound and 7
ounces.  1 quart of granulated sugar = 1 pound and 9
ounces.  1 pint of closely packed butter = 1
pound.  Butter, size of egg = about 2 ounces.  10 eggs =
1 pound.  3 cupfuls of sugar = 1 pound.  5 cupfuls of
sifted flour = 1/6th of a gill.  1 heaping table-spoonfuls = 1
quart; 4 quarts = 1 gallon.  
 In my receipts, I prefer, generally, the use of terms of measure to those of
weight, because the former are more convenient for the majority of
housekeepers.  
 
  TO CHOP SUET. Sprinkle 
 flour  over it while chopping, whch will prevent the
pieces from adhering. 
   RISING POWDER
PROPORTIONS. 
 To 1 quart of flour, use 2 and 1/2 tea-spoonfuls of baking-powder; or, 
 To 1 quart of flour, use 1 tea-spoonful of soda, and 2 tea-spoonfuls of
cream of tartar; or, 
 To 1 quart of flour, use 1 cupful of sour milk, and 1 tea-spoonful of
soda.   
 
  TO MAKE ROUX. A 
 roux  is a mixture of 
 butter and  flour  
 cooked.  It is generally added, uncooked, to thicken
a sauce or a soup; but the flavor is much better if it is first cooked, and the
sauce or soup is added to 
 it.  Professional French cooks always mange it in
this way. When the  butter  is first brought to the
boiling-point, in a small  stew-pan  or cup, the sifted 
 flour  is sprinkled in, and both are mixed well
together over the fire with an  egg-whisk,  until the 
 flour  is well cooked; a part of the sauce or soup is
then stirred in until it becomes smooth and thin enough to add to the main
sauce or soup. If the 
 roux  is intended for a white sauce, it is not
allowed to color; if for a brown sauce, it may color a little, or 
 browned flour  may be used. 
    COOKING
UTENSILS. 
  The   Bain
Marie. --This is an open vessel, to be kept at the back of the range
or in some warm place, to be filled with hot (not boiling) water. Several
stew-  A bain marie containing five smaller
pots.   pans, or large tin cups with covers and
handles, are fitted in, which are intended to hold all these cooked dishes
desired to be kept hot. If there are delays in serving the dinner, there is no
better means of preserving the flavor of dishes. The  bain marie  is especially convenient at any time for
keeping sauces, or vegetables for garnish, which can not always be prepared at
the last minute.   An illustration of a
braising-pan.  
  The   Braising-pan. --The use of this pan will be found by
referring to the article on "braising." 
  The   Fish-kettle. --The fish is placed on the perforated
tin sheet, which is then put into the   An illustration of a fish-kettle,
with the perforated tin sheet lying next to the main
pan.   kettle of water. The fish is thus taken out
of the water at will, without breaking. When done, it is placed for a minute
over an empty iron kettle on the fire, to drain well and steam. It is then
carefully slipped on a napkin in the hot platter in which it is to be
served. 
  The   Custard-kettle. --This is an iron utensil, the inside
kettle being lined with block-tin. Although  An
illustration of a custard-kettle.   there are
cheaper  custard-kettles  made of tin, it is better
economy to purchase those of iron, which are more durable. The inside kettle
containing the custard is placed in the larger one, which is partly filled with
boiling water.   An illustration of a
saut&#233;-pan.  
  The   Saut&#233;-pan. --This pan may either be used for
saut&#233;ing, or for an  omelet pan.  
  Sieve for Pur&#233;es. --This is a substantial
arrangement, the sides being made of tin. It is  An
illustration of a pur&#233;e sieve.   invaluable
for bean, pea, or any of the Pur&#233;e soups, which should be forced through
the sieve. It is also used for bread or cracker crumbs--in fact, for any thing
which requires sifting.   An illustration of the
lid, perforated basket, and large main pot of the steaming-kettle, arranged
vertically in the order in which they would be
stacked.  
  The Steaming-kettle. --The article to be cooked is
placed in the pan perforated with holes. It is put in the long kettle, which is
partly filled with boiling water, then covered with the close-fitting cover.
This is an invaluable kettle for cooking vegetables,
  puddings, and, in fact, almost any thing that is
usually immersed in boiling water. A cabbage, with salt sprinkled among the
leaves, is cooked much quicker in this way than when immersed, and is much more
delicate. It is especially nice for plum-puddings, which then can not become
water-soaked. Cooks generally manage to let the water stop boiling for some
minutes when boiling puddings, which is just long enough to ruin them. This
kettle is no less valuable for cooking chickens or rice. 
  The   Saratoga
Potato-cutter. --The screws at the sides adjust a sharp knife, so
that, by rubbing the  Two illustrations of the
Saratoga potato-cutter, one showing the cutter from the back and the other from
the front.   potato over the plane, it may be cut as
fine or as coarse as may be desired. The plane is also used for cutting
cabbage, or for onions to serve with cucumbers. Cabbage, however, should not be
cut too thin, as it is thereby less crisp. Cost, 50 cents. 
  The   can-opener. --This is the best and cheapest
pattern.  An illustration of a can
opener.   The handle, knife, and square piece are
all made together of pressed iron. Cost, 25 cents. 
  The   Cream-whipper. --The handle 
 A  is placed inside the tube 
 B.  The tube is dipped into a bowl
of  An illustration of the two parts of the
cream-whipper, labeled A and B.   sweetened and
flavored cream. By churning and pressing it through the perforated holes, the
cream becomes a light froth, which is skimmed off the top, and put on a sieve,
as soon as a few table-spoonfuls of it are formed. Cost, 25 cents. 
  The Wire-basket, for Frying. --Articles to
be  An illustration of a wire frying
basket.   fried are placed in the basket, which is
immersed in boiling fat. It facilitates frying, as the articles are all cooked,
lifted out, and well drained at the same time. It is especially nice for frying
smelts or for boiling eggs. 
  The   Egg-poacher. --The eggs are carefully broken into the
little cups, and placed in the stand. The  stand is
then dipped into well-salted  An illustration of an
egg-poacher.   water, which is merely simmering.
When done, each cup (formed like a shell) is taken out from the stand, and
carefully tipped over a piece of buttered toast, leaving the egg with the
pretty form of the cup on top.   An illustration of
a fish-stand.  
  The   Fish-stand. --Fried smelts are hung by catching them
to the sharp points of the stand. The intervening places are filled with
parsley or leaves, and the whole served in form of a pyramid. 
  The   Butter-roller.   An
illustration of two wooden paddles, a ball of butter, and a stack of butter
balls in a round dish with three legs.   --The
wooden squares are dipped into cold water. A small piece of butter (enough for
one person at table) is placed on one square, then rolled around with the other
one held in the other land. A little ball is formed with a net-work surface. A
number of balls are thus formed of the same size, and piled on the butter-dish,
as is cut. 
  Butter or Mashed-potato Syringe. --The
butter is placed in the tube, and pressed through the round holes in the end on
to the butter-dishes. It forms a pretty effect of fillets of butter, resembling
vermicelli. Potatoes boiled, seasoned,  An
illustration of the butter or mashed-potato syringe, separated into two
parts.   and mashed may also be pressed through the
tube around the beef, venison, or almost any meat or fish dish, making a pretty
decoration. 
  French Vegetable-cutters. --The little
cups of figures 
 A  and 
 B  are pressed into potatoes, or any bulbous
vegetable, then turned around. The cutter 
 A  will make little potato-balls, say
  an inch in diameter, which are fried, and called
"potatoes &#224; la Parisienne." The figure 
 B  will cut oblong forms.
Smaller-  An illustration of two vegetable cutters,
labeled A and B, accompanied by the shapes that they cut from the
vegetable.   sized cutters are preferable for
cutting potatoes, carrots, turnips, etc., for garnishing 
 &#224; la
jardini&#232;re.    An illustration of
three tin cutters in the shape of a heart, club, and flower. Each cutter is
accompanied by an example of the shape that it will
cut.  
  Tin Cutters,  
 for cutting Slices of Bread to fry for decorating
Dishes(cro&#251;tons), or to serve in Soups. --They may also be used for
cutting slices of vegetables for decorations or for soups. 
  Potato, Carrot, or Turnip Cutter. --This
simple little instrument cuts the vegetables mentioned into curls. When the
curl is cut, the vegetable is afterward cut from the outside to meet it, when
it easily slips out. The handle is separate from the iron wire, and has to be
taken off in order to remove the curl.  An
illustration of a potato/carrot/turnip cutter, accompanied by a spiral
representing the shape that it cuts from the
vegetables.   The curls can be boiled in salted
water, if of carrots; if of turnips, they are better cooked after the French
receipt given; if of potatoes, they are generally fried in boiling lard, and
sprinkled with a little salt as soon as done. They make a pretty garnish, or
may be served alone. 
  Fluted Knife,  
 for cutting Vegetables into various fancy Forms for
Decorations, or for Salads. --Some cut mushrooms with this knife, to give
them a scolloped surface.   An illustration of a
fluted knife accompanied by three shapes (a cone, a sphere, and a cube) with
grooved surfaces.   
  French Cook's Knife. --Made of best
steel. It can easily be kept very sharp, and made of almost constant use in
preparing  An illustration of a French Cook's
Knife.   dishes. It is especially useful for boning.
It costs seventy-five cents, yet, with proper care, should last a life-time.
These knives are so light, sharp, and easily handled, that, when once used, a
person would consider it very awkward to cook without once. 
  A Knife for Peeling. --The wire prevents the
cutting of more than the skins of fruits or vegetables. The wire may be
attached or detached at will, for cleaning it.   An
illlustration of the paring knife described in the previous
paragraph.  
  Wire Skewers  (Fig. A).--They are about
three inches long, and may be of silver or plain wire. Fig. B is a 
 skewer  run  An illustration of
two plain skewers, labeled A; a skewer run through three fish and two other
pieces of food between them, labeled B; and a skewer run through two large and
two small pieces of food.   through three smelts,
with thin slices of bacon between. They are fried in boiling lard, and one
skewerful is served to each person at table. The  fish
dish  is garnished with lemon slices, one of which is placed on the
top of each skewerful of fish when on the plate (see page 112). Fig. C, a 
 skewer  of alternate slices of egged and bread-crumbed
sweet-breads and bacon, managed in the same manner as the smelts (see page
155). 
  Knife for carving Poultry and Game. --Besides
cutting the flesh, this knife disjoints or cuts
the  An illustration of the knife for carving poultry
and game.   bones, which are often embarrassing,
especially in ducks and geese.   An illustration of
a meat-squeezer.  
  Meat-squeezer,  
 for pressing out the Juice of Beef for Invalids. --A
piece of round-steak (which yields more juice than other cuts) is barely heated
through, when it is cut, and the juice pressed out at the angle 
 A  into a warm cup, placed in a basin of hot water. The juice should be served
immediately, and taken while still warm. 
  Pancake-lifter. --This form, having more
breadth than the ordinary square lifter, has the  An
illustration of a pancake-lifter.   advantage of
turning the pancakes with greater facility. 
  Brush,  for rubbing
whites  A small brush, with its bristles tied onto its
handle in the manner of a broom.   of eggs over
rusks, crullers, etc., or for glazing meats with clear stock, reduced by
boiling to a stiff jelly. 
  Larding-needles,  
 Lardoons, and Manner of Larding. --See article on 
 Larding,  page 48.   A
larding needle, a larding needle fitted with a lardoon, two plain lardoons, and
a larger illustration showing lardoons that have already been larded into a
piece of meat as well as a larding needle being pushed through the meat to
insert another lardoon. The lardoons in the latter illustration have been
labeled with the numbers 1-10.  
  Apple-corer. --The larger tube is for
coring  An illustration of two apple corers, one large
and one small.   apples; the smaller one for coring
Siberian crab-apples, for preserving. 
  Jelly-stand. --This is simply and
cheaply  An illustration of a
jelly-stand.   made. Rings can be fastened to the
ends of the cords, and slipped over the four top rounds, to hold the 
 jelly-bag  on the stand; or it may be tied. The 
 jelly-bag  should be made of flannel, or of Canton
flannel. This arrangement is not only convenient for jellies, but for clear
soups as well.  
  Meat-pie Mold. --Fig. A represents the
mold closed, the wires at each end fastening the two sides together. It is here
ready to be buttered, the crust to be laid in, and pressed into the decorations
at the sides, filled, the top crust to be fitted over, and baked. Fig. B, the
wire is drawn out one side, the mold opened, and removed from the pie. Fig. C,
the pie ready to be served at table.   Three
illustrations labeled A, B, and C. Illustration A depicts a round mold with
decorated sides; illustration B depicts the same mold, swung open into two
semi-circles on its hinge; and illustration C is a fancy dish that has been
shaped with the mold depicted in A and B, served on a round
platter.  
  Paste-jagger. --Fig. A represents a 
 paste-jagger,  for cutting and ornamenting the edges of
pie-crust. Fig. B is a plain circle of pie-curst cut with the jagger, to fit
the  pie-dish.  Fig. C is part of a strip of pie-paste,
which is cut with the jagger to lay around the edge of the pie. Fig. D, the
strip  Five illustrations labeled A, B, C, D, and E.
Illustration A depicts a paste-jagger; B is a circle of paste with jagged
edges; C is a thin strip of pastry with jagged edges; D is a pie crust with
jagged edges in a pie plate; and E is a finished pie with strips of crust laid
in a diagonal pattern across the top served on a round
platter.   laid around the edge. Fig. E, the pie
placed upon a plate, ready to serve at table. 
  Glass or Tin Flower Forms. --These are
flat forms for decorating  An illustration of three
flower forms; one is U-shaped, another is L-shaped, and the third is shaped
like a cross.    the
table with flowers. They are filled with water or wet sand. The flowers are
placed in, and may, or may not, conceal the tin form. 
  Molds. --Fig. A, a circular tin mold for 
 blanc-manges,  jellies, etc. Fig. B, supposed to be
a blanc-mange  filled with
strawberries.  Two illustrations, labeled A and B,
depicting a ring-shaped mold and a fancy dessert shaped with the mold,
respectively.   These centres may be filled with any
kind of berries, 
 compotes,  fresh fruits, creams, etc., and make
exceedingly pretty dishes. With a small mold of
this  An illustration, labeled C, of a circular mold
with patterned edges.   kind one can prepare a very
dainty-looking dish for an invalid. It may be filled with 
 blanc-mange,  tapioca
jelly,  An illustration of a fancy dessert, labeled D,
formed in the mold depicted in illustration
C.  Irish moss, wine, or chicken jellies, etc., and
filled with a 
 compote,  a whipped cream, beaten eggs, or any
allowable relish. Fig. C, a circular mold, of more elaborate pattern, yet quite
as easy to manage as the simple one. Fig. D, wine jelly, filled with whipped
cream. Fig. E, a  casserole mold.  Fig. F, a casserole of
rice or mashed potatoes,  Two illustrations labeled E
and F. Illustration E depicts a casserole mold; illustration F is a casserole
served in the casserole mold, which is standing on a round platter and
surrounded by leafy garnishes.  
  filled with fried ( saut&#233;d ) spring chickens, with cream sauce, and
surrounded with cauliflower blossoms. A pretty course for dinner, tea, or
supper. 
  Little Silver-plated   Chafing-dish. --It is about four and a half inches
square, for serving Welsh rare-bits, or for small  An
illustration of a chafing-dish on a round
plate.  pieces of venison-steak, with currant jelly.
One is served to each person at table. The lower part is a reservoir for
boiling-hot water. I have seen them also made with little alcohol-lamps
underneath, when the thin slices of venison-steak can be partly or entirely
cooked at table, in the currant jelly. At least, the preparation served is kept
nicely hot. 
  An Instrument for drawing Champagne, Soda, and other
Effervescing Liquids at pleasure, leaving the last Glass as sparkling as the
first. --The instrument D is driven through the
cork  An illustration of the instrument described in
the previous paragraph. The illustration is in three parts: the illustrations
labeled A and B are the two parts of the instrument, which are fitted together
in the uppermost illustration, which is labeled with a C (indicating a button
on the bottom of the instrument) and D (indicating the entire
instrument).   in the bottle, the wire A is
withdrawn, the button C turned; when the Champagne is drawn through the tube B.
When enough is drawn, the button is again turned, and the wire replaced before
the bottle is raised. The bottle should then be kept bottom side up. The
instrument is a perfect success, and can be obtained of H. B. Platt &#38; Co.,
1211 Broadway, New York. It costs $1.85.   A
rectangular piece of paper, labeled A, with dotted lines indicating
folds.  
  Paper Cases  
 for Souffl&#233;s, Chickens &#224; la Bechamel, or for
anything that can be served scolloped, or en coquille. --These cases are
easily and quickly made. They furnish a pretty variety at table, filled with
any of the materials described among the receipts for articles to be served in 
 paper cases  or in shells. To  make the  paper cases,  choose
writing-paper: fold and crease it at the dotted lines in Fig.
A,  A rectangular piece of paper, labeled B, with
dotted lines indicating folds, solid lines indicating cuts, and a triangular
notch in the center of each side.   then cut the
paper at the dark lines in Fig. B. By turning the corner squares, so that they
may lap over the sides, the box is formed. Sew the sides together, all around
the box, hiding the stitches under the small piece of paper at the top, lapped
over the outside. They should  An illustration of a
box, labeled C, which was folded from the paper depicted in the two previous
illustrations. A second illustration, labeled D, shows the same box filled with
food and set on a plate.   be buttered just before
filling. Fig. D is a case filled with a rice souffl&#233;. Figs. E and F are
small cases made of round pieces of paper (four inches in diameter), creased
with a penknife. The top may be left unturned, as Fig. F, or turned twice, as
Fig. E. These cases may be purchased already made; however, it is a pleasant
diversion to make them.   Two round paper cases,
one (labeled E) with a curved lip and the other (labeled F) with a jagged
lip.  
  Paper Handles for Lamb-chops, Cutlets, etc. --A
long strip of thin writing-  Three illustrations,
labeled A, B, and C, showing how to make a paper handle. The illustration
labeled A depicts a piece of paper folded in half and cut partially through
into strips from the folded edge; B depicts the same piece of paper, rolled up
a bit at the folded end; and C depicts the paper coiled into a paper
handle.   paper is doubled, and cut half-way down
with scissors, in as thin cuts as can be easily made (Fig. A, a fragment of the
paper). One edge of the paper is then slipped a little distance farther than
the corresponding edge, which gives the fine cuts a round
  shape, as in Fig. B. The edges can be held in
this position, with the aid of a very little mucilage. Now roll the paper
spirally over a little stick, about the size of a cutlet bone. Fasten the end
with a little mucilage, and the paper handle is quite ready to slip over cutlet
bones, just as they are about to be sent to the table. Larger-sized paper
handles can be made in the same manner for boiled hams. 
  Silver-plated Scallop Shell, for any thing served en
coquille. --Articles served 
 en coquille  make a pretty course for lunch
or  An illustration of a dish shaped like a scallop
shell.   dinner. The shells in plated silver are
quite expensive, costing sixty dollars a dozen at Tiffany's. I imagine they
could be made as well of block-tin, with a single coating of silver, and with
the little feet riveted, so as to stand the heat of the oven. 
  A M&#233;ringue Decorator. --The little tin tube
A (one-third of an inch in diameter), or B, is put in the bottom of the bag. 
 M&#233;ringue  (whipped whites of eggs, sweetened
and flavored), or frosting for cakes, is put in the bag, and squeezed through
the tube on puddings, lemon or 
 m&#233;ringue  pies, or on cakes, forming any
design that may suit the fancy. If it is squeezed through the tube A, the line
of frosting  A m&#233;ringue decorator in three
parts: a cone-shaped bag with a small hole at its apex and two small tips that
can be fitted into the bag.   will be round; if
through tube B, it will be scalloped, when leaves and flowers can easily be
formed. The lady-fingers are shaped by pressing the cake batter though a tube
half an inch in diameter. The bag is easily made with tightly woven twilled
cloth. The little tin tubes can be made at the tinsmith's, or at home, with a
piece of tin, a large pair of scissors, and a little solder. With this little
convenience, the trouble of decorating dishes is very slight, and their
appearance is very much improved.   An illustration
of a gravy and sauce strainer.  
  Gravy and Sauce Strainer. --A
sauce-strainer made of wire gaze of the form of cut presents
  so much surface for straining that the operation
is much quicker accomplished than when using tin cups with a small circle of
gauze or perforated holes at the bottom. 
  An Egg-whisk. --Decidedly the best form for an
egg-whisk is the one given in the cut.  An
illustration of an egg-whisk.   It is equally useful
for making 
 roux  and sauces. By holding the whisk
perpendicularly, and vigorously passing it in the bottom of a saucepan, a small
quantity of butter and flour or sauce can be thoroughly
mixed.    BREAD, AND
BREAKFAST CAKES. 
 IT requires experience to make good bread. One must know, first, how long to
let the bread rise, as it takes a longer time in cold than in warm weather;
second, when the oven is just of proper temperature to bake it. Bread should be
put in a rather hot oven. It is nearly light enough to bake when put in; so the
rule for baking bread differs from that of baking cake, which should be put
into a moderate oven at first, to become equally heated through before rising.
As bread requires a brisk heat, it is well to have the loaves small, the
French-bread loaves being well adapted to a hot oven. After the bread is baked,
the loaves should be placed on end (covered) at the back of the table until
they become cool. 
 
  TO MAKE
YEAST. Ingredients: A cupful of  baker's
yeast;  four cupfuls of  flour;  two large 
 potatoes,  boiled; one cupful of 
 sugar,  and six cupfuls of  boiling
water.  
 Mix the warm mashed  potatoes  and 
 sugar  together; then add the 
 flour;  next, add the six cupfuls of 
 boiling water,  poured on slowly: this cooks the 
 flour  a little. It will be of the consistency of
batter. Let the mixture get almost cold, stirring it well, that the bottom may
become cool also. It will spoil the yeast if the batter be too hot. When
lukewarm, add the tea-cupfuls of  yeast.  Leave this
mixture in the kitchen, or in some  warm place,
perhaps on the kitchen-table (do not put it too near the stove), for five or
six hours, until it gets perfectly light. Do not touch it until it gets
somewhat light; then stir it down two or three times during the six hours. This
process makes it stronger. Keep it in a cool place until needed. 
 This  yeast  will last perpetually, if a tea-cupful
of it be always kept; when making bread, to make new 
 yeast  at the next baking. Keep it in a stone jar,
scalding the jar every time fresh  yeast  is made. 
 In summer, it is well to mix  corn-meal  with the 
 yeast,  and dry it in cakes, in some shady, dry place,
turning the cakes often, that they may become thoroughly dry. It requires about
one and a half cakes ( biscuit-cutter ) to make a four
medium-sized loaves of bread. Crumb them, and let them soak in 
 lukewarm water  about a quarter or half an hour before
using. 
 
 
  TO MAKE THE
BREAD. Ingredients:  Flour,  one and a half
cupfuls of  yeast,   lukewarm
water,  a table-spoonful of  lard,  a little
 salt.  
 Put two quarts of  flour  into the 
 bread-bowl;  sprinkle a little 
 salt  over it; add one and a half cupfuls of 
 yeast,  and enough  lukewarm
water  to make it a rather soft dough. Set it one side to rise. In
winter, it will take overnight; in summer, about three hours. After it has
risen, mix well into it one table-spoonful of 
 lard; then add  flour  (not too
much), and knead it half an hour. The more it is kneaded, the whiter and finer
it becomes. Leave this in the  bread-bowl  for a short
time to rise; then make it into loaves. Let it rise again for the third time.
Bake. 
 
 
  MRS. BONNER'S
BREAD. This is a delicious bread, which saves the trouble of making
yeast. Twenty-five cents' worth of  Twin Brothers'
yeast  will last a small family in six weeks. I would recommend
Mrs. Bonner's bread in preference to that of the last receipt. It is cheaper
and better, at last, to always have good bread, which is insured by using fresh
 yeast  each time. 
 For four loaves: At noon, boil three  potatoes;  mash
them well; add a little  salt;  and two and a half
cupfuls of  flour;  also enough  boiling water  (that in which
the  potatoes  were boiled) to make rather a thin
batter. Let it cool, and when it is at about blood-heat, add a  Twin
Brothers' yeast-cake,  soaked in half a tea-cupful of 
 lukewarm water.  One 
 yeast-cake  will be sufficient for four loaves of bread
in summer; but use one and a half  yeast-cakes  in
winter. Stir well, and put it in a warm place. At night it will be light, when
stir in enough  flour  to make the sponge. Do not make
it too stiff. If you should happen to want a little more bread than usual, add
a little  warm water  to the batter. Let it remain in a
warm place until morning, when it should be well kneaded for at least twenty
minutes. Half an hour or more would be better. Return the dough to the pan, and
let it rise again. When light, take it out; add half a tea-spoonful of 
 soda,  dissolved in a table-spoonful of 
 water;  separate it into four loaves; put them in the
pans, and let it rise again. When light, bake it an hour. 
 
 
  FRENCH BREAD  ( Grace Melaine Lourant ). 
 Put a heaping table-spoonful of  hops  and a quart of
 hot water  over the fire to boil. Have ready five or
six large boiled  potatoes,  which mash fine. Strain the
 hops.  Now put a pint of  boiling
water  (that in which the  potatoes  were
boiled) over three cupfuls of  flour;  mix in the mashed
 potatoes,  then the quart of strained hot 
 hop-water,  a heaping tea-spoonful of 
 sugar,  and the same of 
 salt. When this is lukewarm, mix in one and a half 
 Twin Brothers' yeast-cakes  (softened). Let this stand
overnight in a warm place. 
 In the morning, a new process is in order: First, pour over the 
 yeast  a table-spoonful of  warm
water,  in which is dissolved half a spoonful of 
 soda;  mix in lightly about ten and a half heaping
tea-cupfuls of sifted  flour.  No more 
 flour  is added to the bread during its kneading.
Instead, the hands are wet in  lukewarm water.  Now
knead the dough, giving it about eight or ten strokes; then taking it from the
side next to you, pull it up into a long length, then double it, throwing it
down 
 snappishly  and heavily. Wetting the hands again,
give it the same number of strokes, or 
 kneads,  pulling the end toward you again, and
throwing it over the part left in the pan. Continue this
  process until large bubbles are formed in the
dough. It will take half an hour or longer. The hands should be wet enough at
first to make the dough rather supple. If dexterously managed, it will not
stick to the hands after a few minutes; and when it is kneaded enough, it will
be very elastic, full of bubbles, and will not stick to the pan. When this time
arrives, put the dough away again in a warm place to rise. This will take one
or two hours. 
 Now comes another new process. Sprinkle plenty of 
 flour  on the board, and take out lightly enough dough
to make one loaf of bread, remembering that the French loaves are not large,
nor or the same shape as the usual home-made ones. With
the  An illustration of an oval-shaped lump of
dough.  thumb and forefinger gather up the sides
carefully (to prevent doubling the meshes or grain of the dough) to make it
round in shape. Flour the rolling-pin, press it in the centre, rolling a little
to give the dough the form of cut. 
 Now give each puffed end a roll toward the centre, lapping well the ends.
Turn the bread entirely over, pulling out the ends a little, to give the loaf a
long form, as in cut.   An illustration of a long
loaf of bread.  
 Sprinkle plenty of  flour  on large 
 baking-pans  turned bottom side up, upon which lay this
and the other loaves, a little distance apart, if there is room for two of them
on one pan. Sprinkle plenty of  flour  on the tops, and
set the pans by the side of the fire to again rise a little. It will take
twenty-five or thirty minutes longer. Then bake. 
 Kneading bread in the manner just described causes the 
 grain  of the bread to run in one direction, so that
it may be pealed off in layers. Kneading with 
 water instead of  flour  make
the bread moist and elastic, rather than solid and in crumbs. 
 
 
  PETITS PAINS are made
as in last receipt, by lightly gathering a little handful of 
 dough,  picking up the sides, and turning it over in
the  form of a ball or a biscuit. They are baked as
described for French bread, placing them a little distance apart, so that they
may be separate little breads, each one enough for one person at breakfast. 
 
 
  TOAST. I have remarked
before that not one person in a thousand knows how to make good toast. The
simplest dishes seem to be the ones oftenest spoiled. If the cook sends to the
table a properly made piece of toast, one may judge that she is a 
 scientific  cook, and may entertain, at the same
time, exalted hopes of her. 
 The  bread  should not be too fresh. It should be
cut thin,  evenly, and in good shape. The crust edges
should be cut off. The pieces shaved off can be dried and put in the
bread-crumb can. The object of toasting  bread  is to
extract all its moisture--to convert the dough into pure farina of wheat, which
is very digestible. Present each side of the  bread  to
the fire for a few moments to 
 warm,  without attempting to toast it; then turn
about the first side at some distance from the fire, so that it may slowly and
evenly receive a 
 golden  color all over the surface. Now turn it to
the other side, moving it in the same way, until it is perfectly toasted. The
coals should be clear and hot. Serve it the moment it is done, on a warm plate,
or, what is better, a  toast-rack;  consequently, do not
have a piece of  bread  toasted until the one for whom
it is intended is ready to eat it. 
 "If, as is generally done, a thick slice of  bread is
hurriedly exposed to a hot fire, and the exterior of the 
 bread  is toasted nearly black, the intention of
extracting the moisture is defeated, as the heat will then produce no effect on
the interior of the slice, which remains as moist as ever. Charcoal is a bad
conductor of heat. The overtoasted surface is nothing more or less than a thin
layer of charcoal, which prevents the heat form penetrating through the 
 bread.  Neither will 
 butter pass through the hard surface: it will remain on
it, and if exposed to heat, to melt it in, it will dissolve, and run over it in
the form of rancid oil. 
 This  is why buttered toast is so often
unwholesome." 
  
 
  DIXIE BISCUIT  ( Mrs. Blair ). 
 Mix one tea-spoonful of  salt  into three pints of 
 flour;  put one tea-cupful of 
 milk,  with two table-spoonfuls of 
 lard,  on the fire to warm. Pour this on two 
 eggs,  well beaten; add the 
 flour,  with one tea-cupful of  home-made
yeast.  When well mixed, set it in a warm place for about five
hours to rise; then form into biscuit; let them rise again. Bake. 
 
 
  GRAHAM BREAD. Make the 
 sponge  as for white bread; then knead in 
 Graham flour,  only sifting part of it. Add, also, two
or three table-spoonfuls of  molasses.  
 
 
  RUSKS. Add to about a
quart of  bread dough  the beaten  yolks of
three eggs,  half a cupful of  butter,  and
one cupful of  sugar:  mix all well together. When
formed into little cakes (rather high and slender, and placed very near each
other), rub the tops with  sugar  and 
 water  mixed; then sprinkle over dry 
 sugar.  This should fill two pans. 
 
 
  PARKER HOUSE ROLLS  ( Mrs. Samuel Treat ). 
 Ingredients: Two quarts of  flour,  one pint of 
 milk  (measured after boiling), 
 butter  the size of an egg, one table-spoonful of 
 sugar,  one tea-cupful of  home-made
yeast,  and a little  salt.  
 Make a hole in the  flour.  Put in the other
ingredients, in the following order:  sugar,  
 butter,   milk,  and 
 yeast.  Do not stir the ingredients after putting them
together. Arrange this at ten o'clock at night; set it in a cool place until
ten o'clock the next morning, when mix all together, and knead it fifteen
minutes by the clock. Put it in a cool place again until four o'clock P.M.,
when cut out the rolls, and set each one apart from its neighbor in the pan.
Set it for half an hour in a warm place. Bake fifteen minutes. 
 
 
  BEATEN BISCUIT. Rub one
quarter of a pound of  lard  into one and a half
  pounds of  flour,  adding
a pinch of  salt.  Mix enough 
 milk  or  water  with it to make
a 
 stiff  dough. Beat the dough well with a rolling-pin
for half an hour or more, or until the dough will 
 break  when pulled. Little machines come for the
purpose of making beaten biscuit, which facilitate the operation. Form into
little biscuit, prick them on top several times with a fork, and bake. 
 
 
  SODA AND CREAM OF TARTAR
BISCUIT. Ingredients: One quart of  flour,  one
tea-spoonful of  soda,  two tea-spoonfuls 
 cream of tartar,  one even tea-spoonful of 
 salt,   lard  or 
 butter  the size of a small egg, and 
 milk.  
 Put the  soda,   cream of
tartar,  and  salt  on the table; mash them
smoothly with a knife, and mix well together; mix them as evenly in the 
 flour  as possible; then pass it all through the sieve
two or three times. The success of the biscuits depends upon the equal
distribution of these ingredients. Mix in the  lard  or 
 butter  (melted) as evenly as possible, taking time to
rub it between the open hands, to break any little lumps. Now pour in enough 
 milk  to make the dough consistent enough to roll out,
mixing it lightly with the ends of the fingers. The quicker it is rolled out,
cut, and baked, the better will be the biscuits. 
 The biscuits are cheaper made with  cream of
tartar and  soda  than with baking-powder,
yet many make the 
 
 
  BISCUITS WITH
BAKING-POWDER. They are made as in the last receipt, merely
substituting two heaping tea-spoonfuls of 
 baking-powder  for the cream of tartar and soda, and
taking the same care to mix evenly. 
 These biscuits are nice rolled quite thin (half an inch), and cut with a
small cutter two inches in diameter. They may be served hot or cold, and are
often used at evening companies, cold, split in two, buttered, and with chopped
 ham  (as for sandwiches) placed between them. They are
preferable to bread sandwiches, as they do not dry as quickly, and are,
perhaps, neater to handle. These biscuits are especially nice when made with 
 Professor Horsford's self-raising flour of course,
  the raising powders are omitted. The appreciation
of hot biscuits is quite a Southern and Western American fancy. They are rarely
seen abroad, and are generally considered unwholesome in the Eastern
States. 
 
 
  MUFFINS. Ingredients:
Two  eggs,  one pint of 
 flour, one tea-cupful of  milk 
or  cream,   butter  half the
size of an egg, a little  salt,  and one tea-spoonful of
 baking-powder.  
 Mix the baking-powder and  salt  in the 
 flour.  Beat the  eggs;  add to
the  yolks,  first,  milk,  then 
 butter (melted),  then 
 flour, then the  whites.  Beat
well after it is all mixed, and bake them immediately in a hot oven, in 
 gem-pans  or rings. Take them out of the pans or rings
the moment they are done, and send them to the table. The 
 self-raising flour  is very nice for making muffins. In
using this, of course, the baking-powder should be omitted. 
 
 
  WAFFLES. Ingredients:
Two  eggs,  one pint of 
 flour, one and a quarter cupfuls of 
 milk  or  cream,  one even
tea-spoonful of  yeast-powder,  
 butter  or  lard  the size of a
walnut, and  salt.  
 Mix the baking-powder and  salt  well in the 
 flour,  then rub in evenly the 
 butter;  next add the beaten 
 yolks  and  milk  mixed, then
the beaten  whites of the eggs.  Bake immediately. 
 
 
  RICE WAFFLES  ( Mrs. Gratz Brown ). 
 Ingredients: One and a half pints of  boiled
rice, one and a half pints of  flour,  half
a tea-cupful of  sour milk,  half a tea-cupful of 
 sweet milk,  one tea-spoonful of 
 soda,   salt,  three 
 eggs,  and  butter  size of a
walnut. 
 
 
  RICE PANCAKES are made
as in the last receipt, by adding an extra half-cupful of 
 milk.  
 
 
  HOMINY CAKE  ( Mrs. Watts Sherman ). 
 Add a spoonful of  butter  to two cupfuls of 
 whole hominy  (boiled an hour with 
 milk ) while it is still hot. Beat three 
 eggs  very light, which add to the 
 hominy.  Stir in gradually 
 
  a pint of  milk,  and, lastly, a pint of 
 corn-meal.  Bake in a pan. 
 This is a very nice breakfast cake. Serve it, with a large napkin under it,
on a plate. The sides of the napkin may cover the top of the cake until the
moment of serving, which will keep it moist. 
 
 
  BAKED HOMINY GRITS  ( Mrs. Pope ). 
 Ingredients: One quart of  milk,  one cupful of 
 hominy grits,  two  eggs,  and 
 salt.  
 When the  milk  is salted and boiling, stir in the 
 hominy grits,  and boil for twenty minutes. Set it
aside to cool thoroughly. Beat the  eggs  to a stiff
froth, and then beat them well and hard into the 
 hominy.  Bake half an hour. 
 
 
  BREAKFAST PUFFS, OR POP-OVERS ( Mrs. Hopkins ). 
 Ingredients: Two cupfuls of  milk,  two cupfuls of 
 flour,  two  eggs,  and an even
tea-spoonful of  salt.  
 Beat the  eggs  separately and well, add the 
 whites  last, and then beat all well together. They may
be baked in  roll-pans,  or deep 
 gem-pans,  which should be heated on the range, and
greased before the batter is put in: they should be filled half full with the
batter. Or they may be baked in  tea-cups,  of which eight
would be required for this quantity of batter. When baked, serve immediately. 
 For  Graham gems  use half  Graham
flour.   
 
 
  HENRIETTES FOR TEA  ( French Cook ), No. 1. 
 Ingredients: Three  eggs  beaten separately,
three-fourths of a cupful of  cream  or 
 milk,  a scant tea-spoonful of 
 baking-powder,   salt,  one
table-spoonful of  brandy,  a pinch of 
 cinnamon,  enough  flour  to
make them just stiff enough to roll out easily. 
 Roll them thin as a wafer, cut them into about two-inch squares, or into
diamonds, with the  paste-jagger,  fry them in boiling 
 lard,  and sprinkle over  pulverized
sugar.  
 
 
  HENRIETTES FOR BREAKFAST OR
TEA ( French Cook ), No. 2. 
 Ingredients: Three  eggs  beaten separately, one
cupful of    milk,  a scant
tea-spoonful of  baking-powder,  
 salt,  one table-spoonful of 
 brandy,  and  flour  enough to
make a little thicker than for pancakes. 
 Pass the batter through a funnel (one-third or one-half inch diameter at
end) into hot boiling  lard,  making rings, or any
figures preferred. Do not fry too much at one time. When done and drained,
sprinkle over  pulverized sugar,  and lay them on a
plate on a folded napkin. Serve. 
 
 
  WAFER BISCUITS. Rub a
piece of  butter  the size of a large hickory-nut into a
pint of sifted  flour;  sprinkle over a little 
 salt.  Mix it into a stiff, smooth paste, with the 
 white of an egg  beaten to a froth, and 
 warm milk.  Beat the paste with a rolling-pin for half
an hour, or longer; the more the dough is beaten, the better are the biscuits.
Form the dough into little round balls about the size of a pigeon's egg; then
roll each of them to the size of a saucer. They should be mere wafers in
thickness; they can not be too thin. Sprinkle a little 
 flour  over the tins. Bake. 
 These wafers are exceedingly nice to serve with a cheese course, or for
invalids to eat with their tea. 
 
 
  CORN
BREAD. Ingredients: One cupful of  sour
milk, one cupful of  sweet milk,  one
table-spoonful of  sugar  or 
 molasses,  one tea-cupful of 
 flour,  two heaping tea-cupfuls of 
 corn-meal,  one tea-spoonful of 
 salt,  one tea-spoonful (not heaping) of 
 soda,  one and a half table-spoonfuls of 
 melted lard  or  butter,  and
three  eggs.  
 Beat the  eggs  separately; add the 
 melted butter  to the 
 milk; then the  sugar,  
 salt,   yolks,  
 soda  (dissolved in a table-spoonful of 
 warm water ); and, lastly, the 
 whites,   flour,  and 
 corn-meal.  Beat it all quickly and well together. Put
it immediately in the oven, to bake half an hour. 
 
 
  HOE CAKE. Pour enough
scalding  water,  or  milk,  on 
 corn-meal (salted),  to make it rather moist. Let it
stand an hour, or longer. Put two or three heaping table-spoonfuls on a hot
griddle, greased  with 
 pork  or  lard.  Smooth over the
surface, making the cake about half an inch thick, and of round shape. When
browned on one side, turn and brown it on the other. Serve very hot. 
 These are very nice breakfast, cakes, with a savory crust. 
 
 
  CORN CAKE  ( Mrs.
Lackland ). 
 Ingredients: One pint of  milk,  half a pint of 
 Indian 
 meal.   four 
 eggs,  a scant table-spoonful of 
 butter,   salt,  and one
tea-spoonful of  sugar.  Pour the 
 milk  boiling on the 
 sifted  meal. When cold, add the 
 butter  (melted), the  salt, the
 sugar,  the  yolks of the eggs, 
and, lastly, the  whites,  well beaten separately. Bake
half an hour in a hot oven. It is very nice baked in iron or tin  gem
pans,  the cups an inch and a half deep. 
 
 
  FRIED CORN MUSH FOR
BREAKFAST. Many slice the mush when cold, and simply 
 saut&#233;  it in a little hot 
 lard.  But as some cooks seem to have as great success
in simple dishes as in elaborate ones, I shall consider this as at least one of
the little successes taught me by a French cook. Of course, the mush is made by
sprinkling the  corn-meal  into 
 boiling salted water,  or after the
manner of Harriet Plater, given in the next receipt. It is thoroughly cooked,
and made the day before wanted. When cold, it is sliced, each slice dipped in
beaten  eggs  (salted) and  bread or cracker
crumbs,  and fried in boiling-hot  lard. One
should try this, to know the superiority in the manner of cooking. 
 
 
  CORN MUSH is usually
made by sprinkling  corn-meal  into 
 well-salted boiling water  (a pint of 
 corn-meal  to three pints of 
 water ), and cooking it well. But Harriet Plater (Mrs.
Filley's most skillful cook) says that corn-meal mush is much lighter, and when
fried for breakfast, browns better by cooking it as follows: 
 "Put a quart of  water  on the fire to boil. Stir a
pint of  cold milk,  with one pint of 
 corn-meal  and one tea-spoonful of 
 salt.  When the  water  boils,
pour in the mixture gradually, stirring all well together. Let it boil for half
an hour, stirring often, to prevent it from burning." 
  
 
  OATMEAL PORRIDGE. It
seems very simple to make oatmeal porridge, yet it is a very different dish
made by different cooks. The ingredients are: One heaping cupful of 
 oatmeal  to one quart of  boiling
water  and one tea-spoonful of  salt.  Boil
twenty minutes. 
 The  water  should be salted and boiling when the
meal is sprinkled in with one hand, while it is lightly stirred in with the
other. When all mixed, it should boil without afterward being stirred more than
is necessary to keep it from burning at the bottom, and to mingle the grains
two or three times, so that they may all be evenly cooked. If much stirred, the
porridge will be starchy or waxy, and poor in flavor. But the puffing of the
steam through the grains without much stirring swells each one separately, and,
when done, the porridge is light, and quite consistent. This same manner of
cooking is applicable as well to all other grains. 
 
 
  MOTHER JOHNSON'S PANCAKES  ( Adirondacks ). 
 These are famous pancakes, and, like every other good thing, there is a
little secret in the preparation. 
 Enough  flour  is added to a quart of 
 sour milk  to make a rather thick batter. The secret is
that it is left to stand over-night, instead of being finished at once. It may
even stand to advantage for twenty-four hours. However, if it is mixed at
night, the next morning two well-beaten  eggs  and 
 salt  are to be added at the same time with half a
tea-spoonful of  soda,  dissolved in a table-spoonful of
 warm water.  Cook immediately. 
 
 
  SIRUP. Mix two
table-spoonfuls of  water  to two cupfuls of 
 brown sugar  and one even table-spoonful of 
 butter.  Let it boil about five minutes. 
 
 
  BUCKWHEAT CAKES. Scald
two gills of  Indian meal  in one quart of 
 boiling water.  Add a little 
 salt.  When cool, add one gill of 
 yeast,  and stir in enough  buckwheat
flour  to make a thin batter. Let it rise over-night. If by chance
it is a little sour, just before cooking add one-fourth of a tea-spoonful of 
 soda,  dissolved in half a cupful of 
 boiling water.  Or, 
  They may be made in the same manner without the Indian meal,
merely adding the  yeast  to a quart of 
 lukewarm water,  and making the batter with 
 buckwheat flour  alone.  
 
 
  PANCAKES, WITH FLOUR OR
CORN-MEAL. Stir one or two cupfuls of  cream or
 milk  into two beaten  eggs; add
 flour  or  corn-meal  enough to
make a thin batter. If the  milk  is sweet, add one
tea-spoonful of  yeast-powder;  if it is sour, add,
instead of the  yeast-powder,  half a tea-spoonful of 
 soda,  dissolved in a little  warm
water.  
 
 
  PANCAKES, WITH
BREAD-CRUMBS. Soak the  bread-crumbs,  the
drain them. To two cupfuls of  bread-crumbs  add one
cupful of  flour  or 
 corn-meal, one  egg,  and 
 milk  enough to make a thin batter. If the 
 milk  is sweet, add a tea-spoonful of 
 yeast-powder;  if sour, half a tea-spoonful of 
 soda,  dissolved in a table-spoonful of warm
water.  
 
 
  STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE  ( Mrs. Pope ). 
 Ingredients: One quart of  flour,  two heaping
tea-spoonfuls of  yeast-powder,  half a tea-spoonful of 
 salt,   butter  size of an egg, 
 milk,  two quarts of 
 strawberries.  Mix the 
 baking-powder  into the 
 flour, then rub in the  butter 
(in the same manner as described for biscuits, page 72). Add enough 
 milk  to make a soft dough--rather softer than for
biscuits. Spread this on two pie-tins. Bake in a quick oven. 
 When the cakes are done, let them partly cool. Cut around the edges, and
split them. Spread them with  butter,  then with one
quart of mashed  strawberries,  with plenty of 
 sugar;  then put between them the other quart of whole 
 strawberries,  sprinkled with 
 sugar.  Serve a pitcher of 
 cream  with a strawberry short-cake. The cake in this
form can be cut like a pie. It is a good summer breakfast as well as tea dish.
Or, 
  It can be made with  sour milk,  viz.: to
two tea-cupfuls of  sour milk  add a tea-spoonful of 
 soda,  then three-fourths of a tea-cupful of 
 butter  or  lard,  partly
melted, and enough  flour  to
  make a soft dough. Roll it into thin cakes large
enough to fill the pan in which they are to be baked. When baked, split, and 
 butter  them while hot. Lay on a plate half of the
cake, put on a layer of  well-sugared strawberries, then
the other half, then more  strawberries,  and so on,
until there are several layers. Or,  
  These   cakes  can
be made in the same way with  currants,  
 blackberries,  cut 
 peaches, chopped  pine-apples,  
 raspberries,  etc.  
    TEA. 
 
 TWO things are necessary to insure good  tea:  first, that
the  water  should be at the boiling-point when poured
on the leaves,  water  simply hot not answering the
purpose at all; and, second, that it should be served freshly made. 
 Tea  should never be boiled. So particular are the
English to preserve its first aroma, that it is sometimes made on the table two
or three times during a meal. In France, little silver canisters of 
 tea  are placed on the table, where it is invariably
made. One tea-spoonful of the  leaves  is a fair portion
for each person.  Tea  is better made in an earthen
tea-pot, which  tea  connoisseurs are particular to
have. They also drink the beverage without milk, and with 
 loaf-sugar  merely. 
  Water  at the first boiling-point is generally
considered better for  tea  or coffee, and, in fact, any
kind of cooking which requires  boiling water.  
    COFFEE. 
 
 THE best  coffee  is made by mixing two-thirds 
 Java  and one-third  Mocha.  The
Java gives strength, the Mocha flavor and aroma. 
  Coffee  should be evenly and carefully roasted. Much
depends upon this. If even a few of the berries are burned, the 
 coffee  will taste burned and bitter, instead of being
fine-flavored  and aromatic. To have the perfection
of  coffee,  it should be fresh-roasted each day. Few,
however, will take that trouble. As soon as it is roasted, and while still hot,
stir into it one or two  eggs, together with their
shells  (about one  egg  to a pint of
roasted  coffee-beans ). This will help to preserve the 
 coffee,  as well as to make it clear. Put it away in a
close-covered tin-case, and grind it only just before using. 
 Allow two heaping table-spoonfuls of ground 
 coffee to a pint of  water.  Let
the  water  be 
 boiling  when it is poured on the 
 coffee.  Cover it as tightly as possible, and boil it
one minute; then let it remain a few moments at the side of the range to
settle. 
  Delmonico  allows one and a half pounds of 
 coffee  to one gallon of 
 water.  The  coffee-pot,  with a
double base, is placed on the range in a vessel of  hot
water  ( bain-marie ). The 
 boiling water  is poured over the 
 coffee,  which is contained in a felt strainer in the 
 coffee-pot.  It is not boiled. 
 Of course, much depends upon the care in preparing the 
 coffee  to insure a delicious beverage; but equally as
much depends upon serving with it good thick  cream.  
 Milk,  or even boiled  milk,  is
not to be compared with  cream.  In cities, a gill, at
least, might be purchased each morning for  coffee,  or
a few table-spoonfuls might be saved from the evening's 
 milk  for at least 
 one  cup. Fill the cup two-thirds full, then, with
hot, clear  coffee,  pour in one or two table-spoonfuls
of  cream,  and use 
 loaf-sugar.  
 Professor Blot, in his lectures, was very emphatic as to the impropriety of 
 boiling   coffee.  He said by
this means the aroma and flavor were carried into the attic, and a bitter
decoction was left to be drunk. He preferred decidedly the 
 coffee  made in the  French filter
coffee-pot.  
 I have experimented upon  coffee,  and prefer it
boiled for one minute in the ordinary  coffee-pot.  That
made in the French filter is also most excellent. It is not boiled, and
requires a greater proportion of  coffee.  But to be
explicit, put the  coffee  in the filter. At the first
boil of the  water,  pour one or two coffee-cupfuls of
it on the  coffee.  Put back the 
 water  on the fire. When boiling again, pour on as much
more, and repeat the process until the desired quantity is made. 
     CHOCOLATE ( Miss Sallie Schenck ). 
 
 ALLOW two sticks of  chocolate  to one pint of 
 new milk.  After the 
 chocolate is scraped, either let it soak an hour or so,
with a table-spoonful of  milk  to soften it, or boil it
a few moments in two or three table-spoonfuls of 
 water.  Then, in either case, mash it to a smooth
paste. When the  milk,  sweetened to taste with 
 loaf-sugar,  is boiling, stir in the chocolate-paste,
adding a little of the boiling  milk to it first, to
dilute it evenly. Let it boil half a minute. Stir it well, or mill it, and
serve immediately. 
  Maillard's chocolate  is flavored with a little 
 vanilla.  The commoner brands, such as Baker's, will be
nearly as good by adding a little  vanilla  when
making. Miss Schenck  (noted for her 
 chocolate ) adds a very little flavoring of 
 brandy.  
 A very good addition, and one universally seen, when 
 chocolate  is served at lunch parties, is a heaping
table-spoonful of  whipped-cream,  sweetened and
flavored with a little  vanilla  before it is whipped,
placed on the top of the  chocolate  in each cup, the
cup being only three-quarters filled with the 
 chocolate.  
    COCOA. 
 
 MANY use  cocoa  rather than chocolate. It has the same
flavor, but it has more body, and is richer and more oily. It is made in the
same way as chocolate, but a few drops of the  essence of
vanilla  should be invariably added. 
    SOUP. 
 THE meat should be fresh, lean (all fat possible being removed), and juicy
to make the best soup. It is put into cold, clear water, which should be heated
only moderately for the first half-hour. The object is to extract the juices of
the meat, and if it be boiled too soon, the surface will become coagulated,
thereby imprisoning the juice within. After the first half-hour
  the pot should be placed at the back of the
stove, allowing the soup to simmer for four or five hours. 
 Nothing is more disagreeable at table than greasy soup. As all particles of
fat are taken off hot liquor with some difficulty, soup should be made the day
before it is to be used, when the fat will rise to the top and harden. It can
then be easily removed. 
 When vegetables are used, they should be added only in time to become
thoroughly done: afterward they absorb a portion of the richness of the
soup. 
 When onions are used, they impart better flavor by being fried or 
 saut&#233;d  in a little hot butter or other
grease, before they are added to the soup. In fact, many professional cooks fry
other vegetables also, such as carrots and turnips. Sometimes they even fry
slightly the chickens, beef, etc., and then cut them into smaller pieces for
boiling. Potatoes and cabbage should be boiled in separate water before they
are added to a soup. 
 Amateur cooks seem to have a great aversion to making stock. They think it
must be something troublesome, and too scientific to undertake; whereas, in
truth, it saves the trouble of going through the process of soup-boiling every
day, and it is as easy to make as any simple soup. One has only to increase the
quantity of meat and bones to any desired proportion, adding pepper and salt,
and also vegetables, if preferred. 
 The stock should be kept in a stone jar. It will form a jelly, and in cool
weather will last at least a week. 
 Just before dinner each day, in order to prepare soup, it is only necessary
to cut off some of the jelly and heat it. It is very good with nothing
additional; but one can have a change of soup each day by adding different
flavorings, such as onion, macaroni, vermicelli, tomato, tapioca, spring
vegetables (which will make a 
 julienne ), poached eggs, fried bread, asparagus,
celery, green pease, etc. I will be explicit about these additions in the
receipts. Stock is also valuable for gravies, sauces, and stews, and for
boiling many things, such as pigeons, chickens, etc. 
 
  STOCK, OR POT 
 AU FEU.  In ordinary circumstances, 
 beef  alone, with some 
 vegetables,    will make a
good broth or stock, in the proportion of two and a half pints of 
 cold water  to each pound of 
 bones  and  meat;  the 
 bones  and  meat  should be of
about equal weight. It makes the soup more delicate to add 
 chicken  or  veal.   
 Chicken  and  veal  together
make a good soup, called  blond de
veau.   Good soup can be made, also, by using the 
 trimmings of fresh meat,  bits of cold cooked 
 beef,  or the  bones of any meat or
fowl.  In the choice of vegetables, 
 onions (first fried or 
 saut&#233;d,  and a 
 clove stuck in),  parsley,  and 
 carrots  are oftenest used: 
 turnips,   parsnips,  and 
 celery  should be employed more sparingly. The soup
bunch at market is generally a very good distribution of vegetables. Nothing is
more simple than the process of making stock or broth. Remember not to let it
boil for the first half-hour; then it should simmer slowly and steadily, partly
covered, for four or five hours. In royal kitchens the stock is cooked by gas.
Skim frequently; as scum, if allowed to remain, gives an unpleasant flavor to
the soup. Use  salt  sparingly, putting in a little at
first, and seasoning at the last moment. Many a good soup is spoiled by an
injudicious use of  seasoning.  Some add a few drops of 
 lemon-juice  to a broth. If 
 wine  or  catsup  is added, it
should only be done at the last moment. Always strain the soup through a sieve
or  soup-strainer.  Small scraps of 
 meat  or sediment look slovenly in a soup. Or, 
 
 
  A SIMPLE STOCK. If you
have no vegetables (you should always have them, especially onions and carrots,
as they will keep), a very good stock can be made by employing the 
 meat  and  bones  alone,
seasoned with  pepper  and 
 salt.  If rich enough, it might be served in this
manner. However, it is a simple thing, about fifteen minutes before dinner,
each day, to add a little boiled  macaroni,  fried 
 onions,  etc., to vary the soup. 
 
 
  GOUFF&#233;'S RECEIPT FOR
STOCK, OR BOUILLON. Three pounds of  beef;  one
pound of  bone  (about the quantity in that weight of 
 meat ); five and a half quarts of clear 
 cold water;  two ounces of 
 salt;  two  carrots,  say ten
ounces;   two large 
 onions,  say ten ounces, with two 
 cloves  stuck in them; six 
 leeks,  say fourteen ounces; one head of 
 celery,  say one ounce; two 
 turnips,  say ten ounces; one 
 parsnip,  say two ounces. 
 
 
  BOUILLON SERVED AT LUCHEONS,
GERMANS, ETC. Purchase about six pounds of 
 beef  and  bone  (
 soup bones ) for ten persons. Cut up the 
 meat  and break the  bones;  add
two quarts of  cold water,  and simmer slowly until all
the strength is extracted from the  meat.  It will take
about five hours. Strain it though a fine sieve, removing every particle of
fat; and if there is more than ten cupfuls, reduce it by boiling to that
quantity. Season only with  pepper  and 
 salt.  
 It is served in  bouillon cups  at luncheons, at
evening companies, Germans, etc. 
 Sometimes it is served clear and transparent, after the receipt for Amber
Soup. 
 
 
  AMBER SOUP, OR CLEAR
BROTH. This soup is served at almost all company dinners. There can be
no better choice, as a heavy soup is not then desirable. 
 Ingredients: A large  soup bone  (say two pounds), a 
 chicken,  a small slice of 
 ham,  a  soup bunch  (or an 
 onion,  two sprigs of 
 parsley, half a small  carrot, 
half a small  parsnip,  half a stick of 
 celery ), three  cloves,  
 pepper,   salt,  a gallon of 
 cold water,   whites and shells of two
eggs,  and  caramel  for coloring. 
 Let the  beef,   chicken,  and
 ham  boil slowly for five hours; add the vegetables and
 cloves,  to cook the last hour, having first fried the 
 onion  in a little hot  fat, and
then in it stuck the  cloves.  Strain the soup into an
earthen bowl, and let it remain overnight. Next day remove the cake of fat on
the top; take out the jelly, avoiding the settlings, and mix into it the beaten
 whites of the eggs with the shells.  Boil quickly for
half a minute; then, placing the kettle on the hearth, skim off carefully all
the scum and  whites of the eggs  from the top, not
stirring the soup itself. Pass this through the  jelly
bag,  when it should be quite clear. The soup may then be put aside,
and reheated just before serving. Add then a large table-spoonful
  of  caramel,  as it gives
it a richer color, and also a slight flavor. 
 Of course, the brightest and cleanest of kettles should be used. I once saw
this transparent soup served in Paris, without color, but made quite thick with
 tapioca.  It looked very clear, and was exceedingly
nice. 
 This soup may be made in one day. After it is strained, add the 
 eggs  and proceed as in receipt. However, if it is to
be served at a company dinner, it is more convenient to make it the day
before. 
 
 
  TO MAKE CARAMEL, OR BURNED
SUGAR, FOR COLORING BROTH. The appearance of broth is improved by
being of a rich amber color. The most innocent coloring substance, which does
not impair the flavor of the broth, is caramel, prepared as follows: 
 Put into a porcelain saucepan, say half a pound of 
 sugar,  and a table-spoonful of 
 water.  Stir it constantly over the fire until it has a
bright, dark-brown color, being very careful not to let it burn or blacken.
Then add a tea-cupful of  water  and a little 
 salt;  let it boil a few moments longer; cool and
strain it. Put it away in a close-corked bottle, and it is always ready for
coloring soups. 
 
 
  THICKENING FOR SOUP. I
have before recommended the making of soup the day before it is served, as this
is the best means of having it entirely free from fat and settlings. Just
before it is served, it may be thickened with  corn
starch,   sago,  
 tapioca,   pearl barley,  
 rice,  etc. If a thickening of 
 flour  is used, let it be a  roux,  mixed according to directions, page 51.
However, a rich stock jelly needs no thickening. 
 
 
  ADDITIONS TO BEEF STOCK, TO FORM
OTHER KINDS OF SOUP. It is well, just before the  beef
soup  is sent to table, to drop into the 
 tureen   poached eggs,  which have
been cooked in  salted water,  and neatly trimmed. There
may be an  egg  for each person at table. This is a
favorite soup in Havana. Or,  
  Put into the  tureen,  just before the soup
is sent to table, slices of  lemon --one slice for each
plate. Or,  
   Yolks of hard-boiled eggs,  one for each
person. Or,  
  Put into the  tureen  
 cro&#251;tons  or  dice of
bread,  say three quarters of an inch square, fried in a little 
 butter.  When frying, or rather 
 saut&#233;ing,  turn them, that all sides may be
browned. They may be prepared several hours, if more convenient, before dinner;
then left near the fire, to become crisp and dry. This makes a very good soup,
and is also an excellent means of using  dry bread.  It
is a favorite French soup, called  potage aux
cro&#251;tons.  Or,  
  Drop into the  tureen  
 force-meat balls.   
 
 
  RECEIPT FOR FORCE-MEAT
BALLS. Take any kind of  meat  or 
 chicken,  or both (that used for making the soup will
answer); chop it very fine; season it with  pepper,  
 salt,  a little chopped 
 parsley  and  thyme,  or a
little  parsley  and fried 
 onion,  or with  thyme,  or 
 parsley  alone, a little 
 lemon-juice,  and grated peel. Break in a 
 raw egg,  and sprinkle over some 
 flour.  roll them in balls the size of a pigeon's egg.
Fry or 
 saut&#233;  them in a little 
 butter,  or they may be cooked in  boiling
water;  or they may be egged and bread-crumbed, and fried in
boiling  lard.  This is the most simple receipt. The
French take much trouble in making 
 quenelles,  etc., for soup. Or, 
  A simple and delicious addition is that of four or five
table-spoonfuls of stewed  tomatoes.   
 
 
  MACARONI SOUP is only
an addition of  macaroni  to the 
 stock-jelly.  However, boil the 
 macaroni  first in  salted
water.  When done, drain it, and cut it into about two or three
inch lengths. Put these pieces into the soup when it is simmering on the fire,
then serve it a few minutes after. Many send, at the same time, a plate of 
 grated cheese.  This is passed, a spoon with it, after
the plates of soup are served, each person adding a spoonful of it to their
soup, if they choose. They probably will not choose it a second time. 
  
 
  VERMICELLI SOUP is made
exactly as macaroni soup, only the  vermicelli  is not
cut, and, if 
 very little  of it is used, it may be boiled in the
soup. Often the  stock  for 
 vermicelli  is preferred made of 
 veal  and  chicken,  instead of 
 beef;  however, either is very good.  Grated
cheese  may also be served with it. 
 
 
  NOODLES ( Eleanore Bouillotat ). 
 Three delicious dishes may be made from this simple and economical receipt
for noodles: 
 To three  eggs  (slightly beaten), two
table-spoonfuls of  water,  and a little 
 salt,  add enough  flour  to
make a rather stiff dough; work it well for fifteen or twenty minutes, as you
would dough for crackers, adding  flour  when necessary.
When pliable, cut off a portion at a time, roll it thin as a wafer, sprinkle
over  flour,  and, beginning at one side, roll it into a
rather tight roll. With a sharp knife, cut it, from the end, into very thin
slices (one-eighth inch), forming little wheels or curls. Let them dry an hour
or so. Part may be used to serve as a vegetable, part for a noodle soup, and
the rest should be dried, to put one side to use at any time for a beef
soup. 
 
 
   TO SERVE AS A
VEGETABLE.  Three cupfuls of fresh 
 noodles,  three quarts of  salted boiled
water,   bread-crumbs,  
 butter  size of an egg. 
 Throw a few of the noodles at a time into the  boiling salted
water,  and boil them until they are done, separating and shaking
them with a large fork to prevent them from matting together. Skin them out
when done, and keep them on a warm dish in a warm place until enough are cooked
in a similar manner. Now mix the  butter  (in which the
bread-crumbs were fried) evenly in them; put them on the platter on which they
are to be served, and sprinkle over the top 
 bread-crumbs  fried or 
 saut&#233;d  in some hot 
 butter  until they are of a light-brown color. This is
a very good dish to serve with a fish, or with almost any meat, or it can be
served as a course by itself; or the noodles can be cooked as macaroni, with 
 cheese.  
  
 
  NOODLE SOUP. Add to the
 water in which noodles were boiled,  as in last
receipt, part of the  butter  in which the bread-crumbs
were 
 saut&#233;d,  a table-spoonful of chopped 
 parsley,  and two or three table-spoonfuls of the
cooked  noodles.  Season with more 
 salt,  if necessary. Serve. 
 
 
  BEEF NOODLE SOUP. Add
to a  beef stock  a small handful of fresh or dried 
 noodles  about twenty minutes before serving, which
will be long enough time to cook them. 
 Many varieties of soups may be made by adding different kinds of vegetables
to beef soup or stock.  Cauliflower,  
 cabbage,   potatoes,  and 
 asparagus  are better boiled in separate 
 water,  and added to the 
 soup-tureen  at the last moment. 
 Onions,   leeks,  
 turnips,  and  carrots  are
better fried to a light color in a   saut&#233;  pan  with a little 
 butter  or  clarified
grease, and added to the soup. In frying, it is better to accompany
the vegetable or vegetables with a little  onion.  
  If you add more  onion,  more 
 turnip,  or more  carrot  than
any other vegetable, you have  onion, turnip, or carrot
soup. I will specify a few combinations of vegetables.  
 
 
  SPRING SOUP. A 
 stock  with any  spring
vegetables  added which have first been parboiled in other 
 water.  Those generally used are 
 pease,   asparagus-tops,  or a
few young  onions  or 
 leeks. This soup is often colored with 
 caramel.  Or, 
  Here is  Francatelli's  receipt for
spring soup, a little simplified: Cut with a 
 vegetable-cutter  two  carrots and
two  turnips  into little round shapes; add the white
part of a head of  celery;  twelve small young 
 onions,  sliced, without the green stalks; and one head
of  cauliflower,  cut into flowerets. Parboil these
vegetables for three minutes in  boiling water.  Drain,
and add them to two quarts of  stock,  made of 
 chicken  or  beef  (
 chicken  is better). Let the whole simmer gently for
half an hour, then add  the  white
leaves of a head-lettuce  (cut the size of a half-dollar, with a
cutter). As soon as tender, and when about to send the soup to the table, add
half a gill of small  green pease,  and an equal
quantity of  asparagus-heads,  which have been
previously boiled in other  water.   
 
 
  JULIENNE SOUP, WITH POACHED
EGGS ( Dubois ). 
 Take two medium-sized  carrots,  a medium-sized 
 turnip,  a piece of  celery, the
 core of a lettuce,  and an 
 onion.  Cut them into thin fillets about an inch long.
Fry the  onion  in  butter  over
a moderate fire, without allowing it to take color; add the 
 carrots,   turnips,  and 
 celery --raw, if tender; if not, boil them separately
for a few minutes. After frying all slowly for a few moments, season with a
pinch of  salt  and a tea-spoonful of 
 powdered-sugar.  Then moisten them with a gill of 
 broth,  and boil until reduced to a glaze. Now add
nearly two quarts of good  stock,  which has been
skimmed and passed through a sieve, and remove the 
 stew-pan  to the back of the stove, so that the soup may
boil only partially. A quarter of an hour after add the 
 lettuce  (which has been boiled in other 
 water ), and a few raw  sorrel
leaves,  if they can be procured. This soup is quite good enough
without  eggs,  yet they are a pleasant addition. Poach
them in  salted water,  trim them, and drop into the 
 soup-tureen  just as it is ready to send to the table.
Many color this soup with  caramel.  In that case, the 
 sugar  should be omitted. 
 
 
  ASPARAGUS
SOUP. Ingredients: Three pints of  beef soup or
stock,  thirty heads of  asparagus,  a
little  cream,   butter,  
 flour,  and a little 
 spinach.  
 Cut the tops off the  asparagus,  about half an inch
long, and boil the rest. Cut off all the tender portions, and rub them through
a sieve, adding a little  salt.  Warm three pints of 
 stock,  add a  roux  made of a small piece of 
 butter  and a heaping tea-spoonful of 
 flour;  then add the  asparagus
pulp.  Boil it slowly a quarter of an hour, stirring in two or
three table-spoonfuls of  cream.  Color the soup with a
tea-spoonful of  spinach green,  and, just before
serving it, add the  asparagus-tops,  which have been
separately boiled.  
  Many like this soup, but I prefer simply boiled 
 asparagus-points  added to 
 stock  or  beef soup,  just
before serving.  
 
 
  SPINACH GREEN. Pound
some  spinach  well, adding a few drops of 
 water;  squeeze the juice through a cloth, and put it
on a strong fire. As soon as it looks curdy, take it off, and strain the liquor
through a sieve. What remains on the sieve will be coloring matter. 
 
 
  OX-TAIL SOUP. 
 Ox-tails  make an especially good soup, on account of
the gelatinous matter they contain. 
 Ingredients: Two  ox-tails,  a  soup
bunch,  or a good-sized  onion,  two 
 carrots,  one stalk of 
 celery, a little  parsley,  and
a small cut of  pork.  
 Cut the  ox-tails  at the joints, slice the
vegetables, and mince the  pork.  Put the 
 pork  into a  stew-pan.  When hot,
add first the  onions;  when they begin to color, add
the  ox-tails.  Let them fry or 
 saut&#233;  aa very short time. Now cut them to the
bone, that the juice may run out in boiling. Put both the 
 ox-tails  and fried  onions into
a  soup kettle,  with four quarts of  cold
water.  Let them simmer for about four hours; then add the other
vegetables, with three  cloves  stuck in a little piece
of  onion,  and  pepper  and 
 salt.  As soon as the vegetables are well cooked, the
soup is done. Strain it. Select some of the joints (one for each plate), trim
them, and serve them with the soup. Or, if preferred, the joints may be left
out. 
 
 
  CHICKEN SOUP ( Potage &#224; la
Reine ). -- Francatelli.  
 Roast a large  chicken.  Clear all the 
 meat  from the bones, chop, and pound it thoroughly
with a quarter of a pound of boiled  rice.  Put the 
 bones  (broken) and the 
 skin into two quarts of  cold
water.  Let it simmer for some time, when it will make a weak
broth. Strain it, and add it to the  chicken  and 
 rice.  Now press this all through a sieve, and put it
away until dinner-time. Take off the grease on top; heat it without boiling,
and, just before sending to table, mix into it a gill of boiling 
 cream.  Season carefully with
 pepper  and  salt.  
  
 
  PUR&#233;e OF CHICKEN  ( Giuseppe Romantii ).  Chef de Cuisine of the Cooking-school in New
York.  
 Ingredients: One and a half pounds of  chicken,  one
and a half quarts of  white stock  (made with 
 veal ), half a sprig of 
 thyme, two sprigs of  parsley, 
half a blade of  mace,  one 
 shallot,  a quarter of a pound of 
 rice,  and half a pint of 
 cream.  
 Roast the  chicken,  and when cold cut off all the
flesh; put the  bones  into the  white
stock,  together with the  thyme,  
 mace,   parsley,  
 shallot,  and washed  rice; boil
it until the  rice  is very thoroughly cooked. In the
mean time, chop the  chicken;  pound it in a 
 mortar;  then pass it though a sieve or 
 colander,  helping the operation by moistening it with a
little of the  stock.  Strain the balance of the 
 stock,  allowing the  rice  to
pass through the sieve. 
 Half an hour before dinner, add the  chicken  to the 
 stock  and heat it 
 without boiling.  Just before serving, add to it half
a pint of boiling  cream.  Season with 
 pepper  an  salt.  
 
 
  PLAIN CHICKEN SOUP. Cut
up the  chicken,  and break all the 
 bones;  put it in a gallon of  cold
water;  let it simmer for five hours, skimming it well. The last
hour add, to cook with the soup, a cupful of  rice  and
a sprig of  parsley.  When done, let the kettle remain
quiet a few moments on the kitchen table, when skim off every particle of fat
with a spoon. Then pour all on a sieve placed over some deep dish. Take out all
the  bones,  pieces of  meat, and
 parsley.  Press the 
 rice through the sieve. Now mix the 
 rice,  by stirring it with the soup, until it resembles
a smooth 
 pur&#233;e.  Season with 
 pepper  and  salt.  
 
 
  GIBLET SOUP. This soup
is a great success. It is very inexpensive, a plate of 
 giblets  only costing at market five cents. It is a
very good imitation of mock-turtle soup, and, after the first experience in
making, it will found very easy to manage. 
 Ingredients: The  giblets of four chickens or two
turkeys,  one medium-sized  onion,  one
small  carrot,  half a 
 turnip, two sprigs of 
 parsley,  a leaf of  sage,  
 eggs,  a little  lemon-juice,  
 Port or Madeira wine,  and one or two cupfuls of 
 chicken or beef stock,  quite strong. 
 Cut up the vegetables. Put a piece of  butter  the
size of a small egg into a  stew-pan.  When quite hot,
throw in the sliced  onion.  When they begin to brown,
add the  carrot  and  turnip,  a
table-spoonful of  flour,  and the 
 giblets.  Fry them all quickly for a minute, watching
them constantly, that the  flour  may brown, and not
burn. Now cut the  giblets  (that the juice may escape),
and put all into the  soup-kettle,  with a little 
 pepper  and  salt,  and three
quarts of  water --of course, 
 stock  would be much better, and for extra occasions I
would recommend it; or without  stock,  one could add
any fresh  bones  or scraps of  lean
meat  one might happen to have. Pieces of 
 chicken  are especially well adapted to this soup; yet,
for ordinary occasions,  giblets  alone answer very
well. 
 Let the soup simmer for five hours; then strain it. Thicken it a little with
 roux  (page 51), letting the 
 flour  brown, and add to it also one of the 
 livers  mashed. Season with the additional 
 pepper  and  salt  it needs, a
little  lemon-juice,  and two table-spoonfuls of 
 Port or Madeira wine.  Put into the  soup
tureen   yolks of hard-boiled eggs,  one for
each person at table. Pour over the soup, and serve. 
 
 
  MOCK-TURTLE SOUP  ( New York Cooking-school ). 
 Let some one beside yourself remove the flesh from a  calf's
head,  viz., cut from between the ears to the nose, touching the
bone; then, cutting close to it, take off all the flesh. Turn over the 
 head,  cut open the jaw-bones from underneath, and take
out the  tongue  whole. Turn the 
 head  back again, crack the top of the skull between
the ears, and take out the brains whole; they may be saved for a separate dish.
Soak all separately for a few moments in  salt and
water.  Cut the skull all to pieces, wash it quickly, and put it on
the fire in four quarts of  cold water,  together with
the flesh,  tongue,  half a bunch of 
 parsley,  half a stalk of 
 celery,  one large 
 bay-leaf, three  cloves,  half
an inch of a stick of  cinnamon,  six whole 
 allspice, six  pepper-corns, 
half of a large  carrot,  and one 
 turnip.  When the  tongue  is
tender, take it out, to be served as a separate
dish (with  spinach  or with  sauce Tartare ). Leave in the flesh for about two
hours, when it will be perfectly tender. Let the 
 bones,  etc., simmer for six hours, then strain, and
put it away until the next day. 
 At the same time that the  calf's head  is cooking in
one vessel, make a  stock  in another, with a 
 beef or veal soup-bone  (two or three pounds), and any 
 scraps of poultry  (it would be improved with a 
 chicken  added; and one might take this opportunity to
have a boiled  chicken  for dinner, cooking it in the 
 stock ), put into two or three quarts of 
 water,  and simmered until reduced to a pint. 
 The next day, remove the fat and settlings from the two stocks. 
 Put into a two-quart  stew-pan  two ounces of 
 butter  (size of an egg), and, when it bubbles, stir in
an ounce of  ham  cut in strips, and one heaping
table-spoonful of  flour  (one and a half ounces). Stir
it constantly until it gets quite brown, pour the reduced 
 stock  over it, mix it well, and strain it. 
 Now to half a pound of the  calf's head  cut in dice
add one quart of the  calf's-head stock  boiling hot and
the pint of reduced and thickened  stock,  the 
 juice of half a lemon,  and one glassful of 
 sherry.  When it is about to boil, set it one side, and
skim it very carefully. Add the flesh cut from the 
 head,  cut in dice, and two  hard-boiled
eggs  cut in dice, and  salt.  Or, 
   Receipt for Egg-balls. --If,
instead of the egg-dice, egg-balls should be preferred, add to the 
 yolks of two hard-boiled eggs  the  raw yolk
of one egg,  one table-spoonful of  melted
butter,  a little  salt  and 
 pepper,  and enough sifted 
 flour  to make it consistent enough to handle. Sprinkle
 flour  on the board, roll it out about half an inch
thick, cut it into dice, and roll each one into little balls in the palm of the
hand. Put these into the soup five minutes before it is served, to cook.
Or,  
   Receipt for Meat-balls. --If,
instead of meat-dice, meat-balls should be preferred, to three-fourths of a
cupful of the  head-meat,  chopped very fine, add a
pinch of  thyme,  the  grated peel of half a
lemon,  one  raw egg,  and 
 flour  enough to bind all together. Form into little
balls the size of a hickory-nut; 
 saut&#233;  them in a little hot 
 butter.  Or,  
 
 It is very nice to add, instead of egg-balls, whole  yolks of
hard-boiled eggs,  one for each plate. 
 The brains may be used for making croquettes (page 176), or as in receipt
(page 151). 
 
 
  A SIMPLE MOCK-TURTLE
SOUP. Put four  pig's feet,  or 
 calf's head,  and one pound of 
 veal  into four quarts of  cold
water,  and let it simmer for five hours, reducing it to two
quarts. Strain it, and let it remain overnight. The next day skim off the fat
from the top, and remove the settlings from the bottom. 
 About half an hour before dinner put the soup on the fire, and season it
with half a tea-spoonful of powdered  thyme,  a
salt-spoonful of  mace,  a salt-spoonful of ground 
 cloves.  Simmer it for ten minutes. Now take a 
 roux  in a saucepan, viz.; put in one
ounce of  butter  (size of a walnut), and, when it
bubbles, sprinkle in one and a half ounces of 
 flour (one table-spoonful). Stir it until the 
 flour  assumes a light-brown color; add the soup, and
stir all together with the  egg-whisk.  
 Make  force-meat balls  as follows: Chop some of the 
 veal  (used to make the soup), and about a quarter as
much  suet,  very fine; season it with 
 salt  and  pepper,  and a few
drops of  lemon-juice;  bind all together with some 
 raw yolks of eggs  and some  cracker or
bread crumbs;  mold them into little balls about the size of a
pigeon's egg, or smaller, if preferred. Fry them in boiling 
 lard,  or boil them two or three minutes in 
 water.  Cut up also some of the 
 meat,  or rather  skin  and 
 cartilaginous substance,  from the cold 
 feet,  which resembles turtle meat. Now put into the 
 soup-tureen  these 
 meat-balls, pieces of  calf's
feet,  and some  yolks  entire, or slices of
 hard-boiled eggs.  Season the soup the last minute with
a little  lemon-juice  and one or two table-spoonfuls of
 sherry.  
 For a small family, this will make soup enough for two dinners. 
 
 
  GUMBO
SOUP. Ingredients: One large  chicken;  one and
a half pints of  green gumbo,  or one pint of 
 dried gumbo;  three pints of 
 water;   pepper  and 
 salt.   
 Cut the  chickens  into joints, roll them in 
 flour,  and fry or 
 saut&#233;  them in a little 
 lard.  Take out the pieces of 
 chicken,  and put in the sliced 
 gumbo  (either the green or the dried), and 
 saut&#233;  that also until it is brown. Drain well
the  chickens  and  gumbo.  There
should be about a table-spoonful of brown  fat  left in
the   saut&#233;  pan;  to this
add a large table-spoonful of  browned flour;  and add
the three pints of  water,  the 
 chicken,  cut into small pieces, and the 
 gumbo.  Simmer all together two hours. Strain through a
 colander.  Serve boiled  rice  in
another dish by the side of the  soup-tureen.  Having put
a ladleful of the soup in the  soup-plate,  place a
table-spoonful of  rice  in the centre. 
 
 
  GUMBO AND TOMATO
SOUP. If  canned gumbo  and 
 tomatoes  mixed are used, merely add to them a pint or
more of  stock  or strong  beef
broth.  Bring them to the boiling-point, and season with 
 pepper  and  salt.  
 If the fresh vegetables are used, boil the 
 tomatoes and  gumbo  together
for about half an hour, first frying the  gumbo  in a
little hot  lard.  Many, however, boil the 
 gumbo  without frying. 
 
 
  MULLAGATAWAY SOUP ( an Indian soup ). Cut up a 
 chicken;  put it into a 
 soup-kettle,  with a little sliced 
 onion,   carrot,  
 celery,   parsley,  and three or
four  cloves.  Cover it with four quarts of 
 water.  Add any pieces of 
 veal,  with the  bones,  you may
have; of course, a  knuckle of veal  would be the proper
thing. When the pieces of  chicken  are nearly done,
take them out, and trim them neatly, to serve with the soup. Let the 
 veal  continue to simmer for three hours. 
 Now fry an  onion,  a small 
 carrot,  and a stick of 
 celery sliced, in a little 
 butter.  When they are a light brown, throw in a
table-spoonful of  flour;  stir it on the fire one or
two minutes; then add a good tea-spoonful of  curry
powder,  and the  chicken and veal
broth. Place this on the fire to simmer the usual way for an hour.
Half an hour before dinner, strain the soup, skim off all the fat, return it to
the fire with the pieces of  chicken,  and two or three
table-spoonfuls of boiled  rice.  This will give time
enough to cook the  chickens  thoroughly. 
  
 
  OYSTER SOUP. To one
quart, or twenty-five  oysters,  add a half pint of 
 water.  Put the  oysters  on the
fire in the liquor. The moment it begins to simmer (not 
 boil,  for that would shrivel the 
 oysters ), pour it through a 
 colander  into a hot dish, leaving the 
 oysters  in the  colander.  Now
put into the saucepan two ounces of  butter  (size of an
egg); when it bubbles, sprinkle in a table-spoonful (one ounce) of sifted 
 flour;  let the 
 roux  cook a few moments, stirring it well with the 
 egg-whisk;  then add to it gradually the 
 oyster-juice,  and half a pint of good 
 cream  (which has been brought to boil in another
vessel); season carefully with  Cayenne pepper  and 
 salt;  skim well, then add the 
 oysters.  Do not let it boil, but serve immediately. An
oyster soup is made with  thickening;  an oyster stew is
made without it (see receipt). 
  Oyster crackers  and 
 pickles  are often served with an oyster soup. 
 
 
  CLAM SOUP. To extract
the  clams  from the shells, wash them in 
 cold water,  and put them all into a large pot over the
fire, containing half a cupful of  boiling water;  cover
closely, and the steam will cause the  clams  to open;
pour all into a  colander  over a pan, and extract the 
 meat  from the shells. 
 Put a quart of the  clams  with their liquor on the
fire, with a pint of  water;  boil them about three
minutes, during which time skim them well, then strain them. Beard them, and
return the liquor to the fire, with the hard portions of the 
 clams  (keeping the soft portions aside in a warm
place), half an  onion  (one ounce), a sprig of 
 thyme,  three or four sprigs of 
 parsley,  and one large blade of 
 mace;  cover it, and let it simmer for half an
hour. 
 In the mean time make a  roux,  
 i.e.,  put three ounces of 
 butter  (size of an egg) into a 
 stew-pan,  and when it bubbles sprinkle in two ounces of 
 flour  (one heaping table-spoonful); stir it on the
fire until cooked, and then stir in gradually a pint of hot 
 cream;  add this to the  clam
liquor  (strained), with a seasoning of 
 salt  and a little  Cayenne
pepper;  also the soft  clams,  without
  chopping them. When well mixed, and thoroughly
hot (without boiling), serve immediately. 
 
 
  BEAN SOUP. Soak a quart
of  navy beans  overnight. Then put them on the fire,
with three quarts of  water;  three 
 onions,  fried or 
 saut&#233;d  in a little 
 butter;  one little  carrot; two
 potatoes,  partly boiled in other 
 butter;  a small cut of  pork; a
little  red pepper,  and  salt. 
Let it all boil slowly for five or six hours. Pass it then through a 
 colander  or sieve. Return the pulp to the fire; season
properly with  salt  and  Cayenne
pepper.  Put into the  tureen  
 cro&#251;tons,  or 
 bread, cut in half-inch squares, and fried brown on all
sides in a little  butter  or in boiling 
 fat. Professor Blot adds 
 broth,   bacon,  
 onions,   celery,  one or two 
 cloves, and  carrot  to his bean
soup. A French cook I once had added a little  mustard 
to her bean soup, which made a pleasant change. Another cook adds 
 cream  at the last moment. Or, 
  A very good bean soup can be made from the remains of 
 baked beans;  the brown  baked
beans  giving it a good color. Merely add 
 water  and a bit of  onion; boil
it to a pulp, and pass it through the 
 colander.   
 If a little  stock,  or some 
 bones  or pieces of fresh 
 meat are at hand, they add also to the flavor of bean
soup. 
 
 
  BEAN AND TOMATO SOUP. A
pint of  canned tomatoes,  boiled, and passed through
the sieve, with a quart of  bean soup,  makes a very
pleasant change. 
 
 
  ONION SOUP ( Soupe &#224; l'Ognon ). A soup without meat, and
delicious. 
 I was taught how to make this soup by a Frenchwoman; and it will be found a
valuable addition to one's culinary knowledge. It is a good Friday soup. 
 Put into a saucepan  butter  size of a pigeon's egg. 
 Clarified grease,  or the cakes of 
 fat  saved from the top of stock, or soup (I always use
the latter), answer about as well. When very hot, add two or three large 
 onions,  sliced thin; stir, and cook them
  well until they are red; then add a full
half-tea-cupful of  flour.  Stir this also until it is
red, watching it constantly, that it does not burn. Now pour in about a pint of
 boiling water,  and add 
 pepper and  salt.  Mix it well,
and let it boil a minute; then pour it into the 
 soup-kettle,  and place it at the back of the range until
almost ready to serve. Add then one and a half pints or a quart of boiling 
 milk,  and two or three well-mashed boiled 
 potatoes.  Add to the  potatoes 
a little of the soup at first, then more, until they are smooth, and thin
enough to put into the  soup-kettle.  Stir all well and
smoothly together; taste, to see if the soup is properly seasoned with 
 pepper and  salt,  as it
requires plenty, especially of the latter. Let it simmer a few moments. Put
pieces of  toasted bread  (a good way of using 
 dry bread ), cut in diamond shape, in the bottom of the
 tureen.  Pour over the soup, and serve very hot. Or, 
  This soup might be made without potatoes, if more convenient,
using more  flour,  and all 
 milk  instead of a little 
 water.  However, it is better with the potato addition;
or it is much improved by adding  stock  instead of 
 water;  or, if one should chance to have a boiled 
 chicken,  the  water  in which
it was boiled might be saved to make this soup.  
 
 
  VEGETABLE SOUP WITHOUT MEAT
( Pur&#233;e aux L&#233;gumes ). Cut up a
large plateful of any and all kinds of vegetables one happens to have; for
example,  onions,   carrots,  
 potatoes  (boiled in other 
 water ),  beans  (of any kind), 
 parsnips,   celery,  
 pease,   parsley,  
 leeks,   turnips,  
 cauliflower,   spinach,  
 cabbage,  etc., always having either 
 potatoes  or  beans  for a
thickening. First put into a saucepan half a tea-cupful of 
 butter  ( clarified suet  or 
 stock-pot fat  is just as good). When it is very hot,
put in first the cut-up  onions.  Stir them well, to
prevent from burning. When they assume a fine red color, stir in a large
table-spoonful of  flour  until it has the same color.
Now stir in a pint of  hot water,  and some 
 pepper  and  salt.  Mind not to
add  pepper  and  salt  at first,
as the  onions  and  flour  would
then more readily burn. Add, also, all the other vegetables. Let them simmer
(adding more  hot water  when necessary) for two hours;
then press them through a  colander.  Return them to 
  the range in a 
 soup-kettle,  and let them simmer until the moment of
serving. 
 
 
  CORN SOUP. This is a
very good soup, made with either  fresh or canned
corn. When it is fresh, cut the  corn  from
the cob, and scrape off well all that sweetest part of the 
 corn which remains on the cob. To a pint of 
 corn  add a quart of  hot
water.  Boil it for an hour or longer; then press it through the 
 colander.  Put into the saucepan 
 butter  the size of a small egg, and when it bubbles
sprinkle in a heaping table-spoonful of sifted  flour, 
which cook a minute, stirring it well. Now add half of the  corn
pulp,  and, when smoothly mixed, stir in the remainder of the 
 corn:  add  Cayenne pepper,  
 salt,  a scant pint of boiling 
 milk,  and a cupful of 
 cream.  
 This soup is very nice with no more addition, as it will have the pure taste
of the  corn;  yet many add the  yolks of two
eggs  just before serving, mixed with a little 
 milk  or  cream,  and not
allowed to boil. Others add a table-spoonful of  tomato
catsup.  
 
 
  TOMATO SOUP, WITH
RICE. Cut half a small  onion  into rather
coarse slices, and fry them in a little hot  butter  in
a   saut&#233;  pan.  Add to
them then a quart can, or ten or eleven large  tomatoes 
cut in pieces, after having skinned them, and also two sprigs of 
 parsley.  Let it cook about ten minutes, when remove
the pieces of  onion  and 
 parsley.  Pass the 
 tomato through a sieve. Put into the 
 stew-pan   butter  the size of a
pigeon's egg, and when it bubbles sprinkle in a tea-spoonful of 
 flour;  when it has cooked a minute, stir in the 
 tomato-pulp:  season with 
 pepper  and  salt.  It is an
improvement to add a cupful or more of  stock;  however,
if it is not at hand, it may be omitted. 
 Return the soup to the fire, and, when quite hot, add a cupful of
fresh-boiled  rice  and half a tea-spoonful of 
 soda.  
 
 
  TOMATO SOUP ( Pur&#233;e aux
Tomatoes ). -- Mrs.
Crobett.  
 Boil a dozen or a can of  tomatoes  until they are
very thoroughly cooked, and press them through a sieve. To a quart 
  of  tomato pulp  add a
tea-spoonful of  soda.  Put into a saucepan 
 butter  the size of a pigeon's egg, and when it bubbles
sprinkle and stir in a heaping tea-spoonful of 
 flour. When it is cooked, stir into this a pint of hot 
 milk, a little  Cayenne pepper, 
 salt,  and a handful of  cracker
crumbs.  When it boils, add the  tomato
pulp.  Heat it well without boiling, and serve immediately. 
 The  soda  mixed with the 
 tomatoes  prevents the 
 milk from curdling. 
 
 
  SORREL SOUP ( Soupe &#224; la Bonne Femme ). This is a most
wholesome soup, which would be popular in America if it were better known. It
is much used in France.  Sorrel  can be obtained, in
season, at all the French markets in America. 
 For four quarts of soup, put into a saucepan a piece of 
 butter  the size of an egg, two or three sprigs of 
 parsley,  two or three leaves of 
 lettuce,  one  onion,  and a
pint of  sorrel  (all finely chopped), a little 
 nutmeg,   pepper,  and 
 salt.  Cover, and let them cook or sweat ten minutes;
then add about two table-spoonfuls of  flour.  Mix well,
and gradually add three quarts of  boiling water  (
 stock  would be better). Make a 
 liaison, i.e.,  beat the  yolks of four
eggs  (one  egg  to a quart of soup), and
mix with them a cupful of  cream  or  rich
milk.  
 Add a little   chevril  (if you have it) to the soup; let
it boil ten minutes; then stir in the  eggs,  or 
 liaison,  when the soup is quite ready. 
 
 
  POTATO SOUP (No.
1). Fry seven or eight  potatoes  and a small
sliced  onion  in a   saut&#233;  pan  in some 
 butter  or  drippings --
 stock-pot fat  is most excellent for this purpose. When
they are a little colored, put them into two or three pints of  hot
water  ( stock  would, of course, be better;
yet  hot water  is oftenest used); add also a large
heaping table-spoonful of chopped  parsley.  Let it boil
until the  potatoes  are quite soft. Put all through the
 colander.  Return the 
 Pur&#233;e  to the fire, and let it simmer two or
three minutes. When just ready to serve, take the kettle off the fire; add
plenty of  salt  and  pepper, and
the beaten  yolks of two or three eggs.  Do not let the
soup boil when the  eggs  are in, as they would
curdle. 
  
 
  POTATO SOUP (No. 2). A
very good soup for one which seems to have nothing in it. 
 Peel and cut up four rather large  potatoes.  When
they are nearly done, pour off the  water,  and add one
quart of  hot water.  Boil two hours, or until the 
 potatoes  are thoroughly dissolved in the 
 water.  Add fresh  boiling
water  as it boils away. When done, run it through the 
 colander,  adding three-fourths of a cupful of hot 
 cream,  a large table-spoonful of finely cut 
 parsley,   salt,  and 
 pepper.  Bring it to the boiling point, and serve. 
 
 
  PUR&#233;E OF
STRING-BEANS. Make a strong  stock  as follows:
Add to a  knuckle of veal  three quarts of 
 water,  a generous slice of  salt
pork,  and two or three slices of 
 onion. Let it simmer for five hours, the pour it
through a sieve or  colander  into a jar. It is better to
make this  stock  the day before it is served, as then
every particle of fat may be easily scraped off the jelly. 
 Ten minutes before dinner, put into a saucepan two ounces of 
 butter,  and when it bubbles sprinkle in four ounces of
 flour  (two heaping table-spoonfuls); let it cook
without taking color; then add a cupful of hot  cream, a
pint of the heated  stock,  and about a pint of 
 green string-bean pulp,  
 i.e.,  either  fresh or canned
string-beans  boiled tender with a little 
 pork,  then pressed through a 
 colander,  and freed from juice. After mixing all
together, do not let the soup boil, or it will curdle and spoil. Stir it
constantly while it is on the fire. 
 Just before it is sent to table, sprinkle over the top a handful of little
fried  fritter-beans.  They are made by dropping 
 drops   of  fritter
batter into boiling  lard.  They will
resemble  navy-beans,  and give a very pleasant flavor
and appearance to the soup. 
 If this pretty addition be considered too much trouble, little 
 dice of fried bread  ( cro&#251;tons ) may be added instead. The soup
should be rather thick, and served quite hot. 
 
 
  BISQUE OF
LOBSTERS. This soup is made exactly like the 
 Pur&#233;e  of string beans, with the 
 veal stock  and thickened 
 cream,  except that, in place of the
  string-bean pulp, the soup is now flavored and
colored with the  coral of lobster,  dried in the oven,
and pounded fine. This gives it a beautiful pink color. Little dice of the
boiled  lobster  are then to be added. The 
 lobster-dice  may or may not be marinated before they
are added to the soup, 
 i.e.,  sprinkled with a mixture of one table-spoonful
of  oil,  three table-spoonfuls of 
 vinegar,   pepper,  and 
 salt,  and left for two or three hours in the marinade.
Season the soup with  pepper  and 
 salt.  
    FISH. 
 IF a fish is not perfectly fresh, perfectly cleaned, and thoroughly cooked,
it is not eatable. It should be cleaned or drawn as soon as it comes from
market, then put on the ice until the time of cooking. It should not be soaked,
for it impairs the flavor, unless it is frozen, when it should be put into
ice-cold water to thaw; or unless it is a salted fish, when it may be soaked
overnight. 
 The greatest merit of a fish is freshness. The secret of the excellence of
the fish at the Saratoga Lake House, where they have famous trout dinners, is
that, as they are raised on the premises, they go almost immediately from the
pond to the  fish-kettle.  One is to be pitied who has not
tasted fish at the sea-shore, where fishermen come in just before dinner, with
baskets filled with blue-fish, flounders, etc., fresh from the water. 
 A long, oval  fish-kettle  (page 52) is very convenient
for frying or boiling fish. It has a strainer to fit, in which the fish is
placed, enabling it to be taken from the kettle without breaking. A fish is
sufficiently cooked when the meat separates easily from the bones. When the
fish is quite done, it should be left no longer in the kettle; it will lose its
flavor. 
 It makes a pleasant change to cook fish " au
gratin. " It is a simple operation, but little attempted in America. I
would recommend this mode of cooking for eels, or the Western white-fish. 
 A fish is most delicious fried in olive-oil. A friend told me he purchased
olive-oil by the keg, for cooking purposes. It is, 
  of course, expensive, and lard or beef drippings
answer very well. I would recommend, also, frying fish by 
 immersion.  
 If a fish is to be served whole, do not cut off the head and tail. It also
presents a better appearance to stand the fish on its belly rather than lay it
on it side. 
 
  TO BOIL FISH. All 
 fish  but salmon (which is put into warm water to
preserve its color) should be placed in  salted 
 cold  water,  with a little 
 vinegar  or  lemon-juice  in it,
to boil. It should then boil 
 very, very  gently, or the outside will break before
the inside is done. It requires a little experience to know exactly how long to
boil a  fish.  It must never be underdone; yet it must
be taken from the  water  as soon as it is thoroughly
done, or it will become insipid, watery, and colorless. It will require about
eight minutes to the pound for large, thick  fish,  and
about five minutes to the pound for thin  fish,  after
the  water  begins to simmer, using only enough 
 water  to cover it. When done, drain it well before the
fire. The fresh-water, or any kind of  fish  which have
no decided flavor, are much better boiled, 
 au court bouillon,  or with 
 onions  and  carrots  (sliced), 
 parsley,  two or three  cloves, 
 pepper,   salt,  
 vinegar,  or  wine --any or all
of these added to the  water.  The 
 sea-fish,  or such as have a flavor 
 prononc&#233;,  can be boiled in simple 
 salted and acidulated water.  
 If you have no  fish-kettle,  and wish to boil a 
 fish,  arrange it in a circle on a plate, with an old
napkin around it: when it is done, it can be carefully lifted from the kettle
by the cloth, so that it will not be broken. When cuts of 
 fish  are boiled, you allow the 
 water  to just come to a boil; then remove the kettle
to the back of the range, so that it will only simmer. 
 Always serve a  sauce  with a boiled 
 fish,  such as  drawn butter, egg, caper,
pickle, shrimp, oyster, 
 Hollandaise,  or piquante sauce.   
 
 
  TO BOIL AU COURT
BOUILLON. Among professional cooks, a favorite way of boiling a 
 fish  is in  water  saturated
with  vegetables,  called  court bouillon;  consequently a 
 fish  cooked in this manner would be called, for 
  instance, "Pike, 
 au court bouillon. " It is rather a pity this way of
cooking has a French name; however, if one is not unduly scared at that, one
can see how simple it is. 
  Dubois's Receipt. --Mince a 
 carrot,  an  onion,  and a small
piece of  celery;  fry them in a little 
 butter,  in a  stew-pan;  add some
 parsley,  some 
 pepper-corns, and three or four 
 cloves.  Now pour on two quarts of  hot
water  and a pint of  vinegar.  Let it boil
a quarter of an hour; skim it,  salt  it, and use it for
boiling the  fish.  
 It is improved by using  white or red wine  instead
of vinegar; only use then three parts of  wine  to one
of  water.  These stocks are easily preserved, and may
be used several times. 
 To boil the  fish:  Rub the 
 fish  with  lemon-juice  and 
 salt,  put it in a kettle, and cover it with 
 court bouillon.  Let it only simmer, not boil hard,
until thoroughly done. Serve the  fish  on a napkin,
surrounded with  parsley.  Serve a  caper,
pickle, or any kind of fish sauce,  in a 
 sauce-boat.  
 
 
  TO FRY FISH. By frying 
 fish  I mean that it is to be 
 immersed  in hot  lard,  
 beef drippings,  or 
 olive-oil. Let there be a little more 
 fat  than will cover the  fish; 
otherwise it is liable to stick to the bottom and burn. Do not put in the 
 fish  until the  fat  is tested,
and found to be quite hot. If the  fat  were not hot
enough, the  fish  would absorb some of it, making it
greasy and unwholesome. If it is hot enough, the  fish 
will absorb nothing at all. 
 To prepare  fish  for frying, dredge them first with 
 flour;  then brush them with beaten 
 egg,  and roll them in  fine or sifted
bread, or cracker crumbs.  When they are browned on one side, turn
them over in the hot  fat.  When done, let them drain
quite dry. 
 Cutlets of any large  fish  are particularly nice
egged and bread-crumbed, fried, and served with  tomato
sauce  or slices of  lemon.  
 
 
  FISH FRIED IN
BATTER. Cut almost any kind of  fish  in
fillets or pieces one-fourth of an inch thick, and one or two inches square;
only be careful to have them all of the same shape and size. Sprinkle them
  with  pepper  and 
 salt,  and roll each one in 
 batter  (No. 2, page  Slices
of fried fish arranged in a circle on a round
platter.  98). Fry them in boiling 
 lard.  Arrange them tastefully in a circle, one
overlapping the other. Garnish with fresh or fried 
 parsley.   Potatoes 
 &#224; la Parisienne   may be piled in
the centre, and  sauce Tartare  (see page
128) served separately in a  sauce-boat.  
 
 
  TO BROIL FISH. The same
rule applies to broiling  fish  as to every thing else.
If the  fish  is small, it requires a clear, hot fire.
If the  fish  is large, the fire must be moderate;
otherwise the outside of the  fish  would be burned
before the inside is cooked. Many rub the  fish  over
with  olive-oil;  others split a large 
 fish;  still others broil it whole, and cut notches at
equal distances across its sides. When you wish to turn the 
 fish,  separate carefully with a knife any part of it
which sticks to the  gridiron;  then, holding a platter
over the  fish  with one hand, turn the 
 gridiron  over with the other, leaving the 
 fish  on the platter: it will now be a more easy matter
to turn it without breaking. As soon as the  fish  is
done, sprinkle over  pepper  and 
 salt,  and spread  butter  all
over it with a knife. Set it in the oven a moment, so that the 
 butter  may soak in the 
 fish. This is the most common way of seasoning it. It
is almost as easy to first sprinkle  pepper  and 
 salt, then a few drops of 
 lemon-juice,  over the  fish; 
then a table-spoonful of  parsley,  chopped fine; then
some  melted butter  over all. Put it a moment in the
oven to soak. They call this a   ma&#238;tre-d'
h&#244;tel sauce.  Quite simple, it is not? It is especially
nice for a broiled  shad.  
 
 
  TO BAKE FISH. When
cleaning the  fish,  do not cut off the head and tail.
Stuff it. Two or three receipts are given for the 
 stuffing.  Sew it, or confine the 
 stuffing  by winding the cord several times around the 
 fish.  Lay several pieces of 
 pork,  cut in strings, across the top; sprinkle over 
 water,   pepper,  
 salt,  and  bread-crumbs; 
  put some  hot water  into
the pan; bake in a hot oven, 
 basting very often.  When done (the top should be
nicely browned), serve a  sauce  with it. The best
fishes to bake are  white-fish,  
 blue-fish,   shad,  etc. If not
basted very often, a baked  fish  will be very dry. For
this reason, an ordinary cook should never bake a 
 fish.  I believe, however, they never cook them in any
other way. 
   STUFFINGS FOR
FISH. 
 
  BREAD STUFFING. Soak
half a pound of  bread-crumbs  in 
 water;  when the  bread  is
soft, press out all the  water.  Fry two table-spoonfuls
of minced  onion  in some 
 butter;  add the  bread,  some
chopped  parsley,  a table-spoonful of chopped 
 suet,  and  pepper  and 
 salt.  Let it cook a moment; take it off the fire, and
add an  egg.  
 
 
  MEAT STUFFING. This
stuffing is best made with  veal,  and almost an equal
quantity of  bacon  chopped fine. Put in a quarter of
its volume of white softened  bread-crumbs,  pressed out
well; add a little chopped  onion,  
 parsley,  or  mushrooms;  season
highly. 
 If the  fish  should be baked with 
 wine,  this dressing can be used, viz.: 
 Soak about three slices of  bread.  When the 
 water  is well pressed out, season it with 
 salt,  a little  cayenne,  a
little  mace,  and moisten it with 
 port-wine  or  sherry;  add the 
 juice and the grated rind of half a lemon.  
  
 
  TO BAKE A FISH WITH WINE  ( Mrs. Samuel Treat ). 
 Stuff a  fish  with the following dressing. Soak some
 bread  in  water,  squeeze it
dry, and add an  egg  well beaten. Season it with 
 pepper,   salt,  and a little 
 parsley  or  thyme;  grease the 
 baking-pan  (one just the right size for holding the 
 fish ) with  butter;  season the
 fish  on top, and put it into the pan with about two
cups of  boiling water;  baste it well, adding more 
 boiling water  when necessary. About twenty minutes
before serving, pour over it a cup of  sour wine,  and a
small piece of  butter  (Mrs. Treat adds also two or three table-spoonfuls of 
 Worcestershire sauce  mixed with the 
 wine --of course, this may be left out if more
convenient); put half a  lemon,  sliced, into the 
 gravy;  baste the  fish  again
well. When it is thoroughly baked, remove it from the pan; garnish the top with
the slices of  lemon;  finish the 
 sauce  in the  baking-dish  by
adding a little  butter  rubbed to a paste in some 
 flour;  strain, skim, and serve it in a 
 sauce-boat.  
 
 
  TO STEW FISH, OR FISH EN
MATELOTE. Cut the  fish  transversely into
pieces about an inch or an inch and a half long; sprinkle 
 salt  on them, and let them remain while you boil two
or three  onions  (sliced) in a very little 
 water;  pour off this 
 water when the  onions  are
cooked, and add to them  pepper,  about a tea-cupful of 
 hot water,  and a tea-cupful of 
 wine  if it is  claret or white
wine,  and two or three table-spoonfuls if it is 
 sherry  or  port:  now add the 
 fish.  When it begins to simmer, throw in some little
balls of  butter  which have been rolled in 
 flour.  When the  fish  is
thoroughly cooked, serve it very hot. This is a very good manner of cooking any
 fresh-water fish.  
  Fish  is much better stewed with some 
 wine.  Of course, it is quite possible to stew 
 fish  without it, in which case add a little 
 parsley.  
 
 
  TO COOK FISH AU
GRATIN. This is a favorite manner with the French of cooking 
 fish.  The  fish  is served in
the same dish in which it is cooked. It is  An
illustration of fish served in a gratin
dish.  called a 
 gratin  dish--generally an oval silver-plated
platter, or it may be of block-tin. A  fish  
 au gratin  is rather expensive, on account of the 
 mushrooms;  however, the French canned 
 mushrooms  ( champignons ) are almost as good as fresh ones, and
are much cheaper. 
  Receipt. --First put into a saucepan 
 butter  size of an egg, then a handful of 
 shallots,  or one large 
 onion minced fine; let it cook ten minutes, when mix in
half a cupful of  flour;  then mince
 three-fourths of a cupful of 
 mushrooms.  Add a tea-cupful of  hot
water  (or better,  stock ) to the saucepan,
then a glass of  white or red wine,  
 salt,  and  pepper.  After
mixing them well, add the minced  mushrooms  and a
little minced  parsley.  Skin the 
 fish,  cut off the head and tail, split it in two,
laying bare the middle bone; slip the knife under the bone, removing it
smoothly. Now cut the  fish  in pieces about an inch
long. Moisten the   gratin  dish 
with  butter,  arrange the cuts of 
 fish  tastefully on it, pour over the 
 sauce,  then sprinkle the whole with 
 bread-crumbs  which have been dried and grated. Put
little pieces of  butter  over all, and bake. The dish
may be garnished with little diamonds of  fried or toasted and
buttered bread  around the edge. Or, 
  This is a pretty dish 
 au gratin:  Put  mashed
potatoes  (which must be still hot when arranged) in a circle on
the outside of the   gratin dish,  then a row of the pieces of 
 fish (which have been cooked as just described) around
the middle of the dish, or just inside the  potatoes. 
Put some  mashed potatoes  also in the middle of the
dish. Garnish here and there with  mushrooms.  Pour the 
 sauce  just described and  bread
crumbs  over the  fish,  and bake five or
ten minutes.  
 
 
  FISH &#224; LA CR&#232;ME 
( Mrs. Audenreid ). 
 Boil a  fish  weighing four pounds in 
 salted water.  When done, remove the skin, and flake
it, leaving out the bones. Boil one quart of  rich
milk.  Mix  butter  size of a small egg with
three table-spoonfuls of  flour,  and stir it smoothly
in the  milk,  adding also two or three sprigs of 
 parsley  and half an 
 onion chopped fine, a little  Cayenne
pepper,  and  salt.  Stir it over the fire
until it has thickened. 
 Butter a   gratin  dish.  Put
in first a layer of  fish,  then of 
 dressing,  and continue in alternation until all the 
 fish  is used, with dressing on top. Sprinkle sifted 
 bread-crumbs  over the top. Bake half an hour. Garnish
with  parsley  and slices of  hard-boiled
egg.  
 
 As the rules for boiling, broiling, frying, cooking 
 au gratin,  and stewing are the same for nearly all
kinds of  fish,  I will not  repeat the receipts for each particular one. I will only
suggest the best manner for cooking certain kinds, and will add certain
receipts not under the general rule:   SALMON 
 
 is undoubtedly best boiled. The only exception to the rule of boiling 
 fish  is in the case of 
 salmon,  which must be put in hot instead of cold 
 water,  to preserver its color. A favorite way of 
 boiling a whole salmon  is in the form of a letter S, as in
plate.  A large fish, formed into an S-shape and
served on a round platter.  It is done as follows:
Thread a  trussing-needle  with some twine; tie the end of
the string around the head, fastening it tight; then pass the needle through
the centre part of the body, draw the string tight, and fasten it around the
tail. The  fish  will assume the desired form. 
 For parties or evening companies,  salmon  boiled in
this form (middle cuts are also used), served cold, with a   Mayonnaise  sauce  poured over, is a favorite
dish. It is then generally mounted in style, on an oval or square block
pedestal, three or four inches high, made of  bread (two
or three days old), called a  croustade, 
carved in any form with a sharp knife. It is then fried a light-brown in
boiling  lard.  Oftener these 
 croustades  are made of wood, which are covered with 
 white pepper,  and brushed over with a little half-set 
 aspic jelly.  The  salmon  is
then decorated with squares of  aspic jelly.  A
decoration of quartered  hard-boiled eggs  or of cold 
 cauliflower-blossoms  is very pretty, and is palatable
also with the   Mayonnaise sauce.  The best sauces for a boiled
 salmon  served hot are the  sauce Hollandaise,   lobster, shrimp, or
oyster sauces --the  sauce
Hollandaise  being the favorite. 
 If  lobster sauce  is used, the  coral of
the lobster  is dried, and  sprinkled
over the  fish,  reserving some with which to color the 
 sauce,  as in receipt for  lobster
sauce  (see page 122). 
 If  shrimp sauce  is used, some whole 
 shrimps  should be saved for decorating the dish. 
 
 
   In
decorating salmon, as well as any other kind of fish,   
 potatoes  cut in little balls, and placed like little
piles of cannon-balls around the dish,  A fish on a
round plate garnished with potato balls.  are
pretty. The  potatoes  should be simply boiled in 
 salted water.  An alternate pile of  button
mushrooms  are pretty, and good also. 
 Parsley  or any pretty leaves around a dish always give
a fresh and tasteful appearance. Or, 
  An exceedingly pretty  garnish for a large
fish is one of  smelts  (in rings, see receipt,
page 111) fried in boiling  lard.  In this case, add
slices of  lemon.  Still another pretty garnish is of
fried  oysters  or fried 
 parsley,  or both.  
 
 It is quite appropriate to serve a middle cut of salmon at
a  A middle cut of salmon served on a round
platter.  dinner: 1st, because it is the best cut;
2d, because it is easier and cheaper to serve; and, 3d, because one never cares
to supply more than is necessary. This cut is better slowly boiled, also, in
the acidulated salted water. 
 
  TO BROIL SALMON. Take
two slices of  salmon  cut from the middle of the 
 fish,  sprinkle over a little 
 lemon-juice,   Cayenne pepper,  
 salt,  and  salad-oil.  Let it
then remain for half an hour. Rub the  gridiron  well with
 beef-suet  or  pork.  As it is a
nice matter to broil  salmon  without burning, it would
be well to wrap it in buttered or oiled paper just before broiling. Serve a 
  ma&#238;tre-d'h&#244;tel,  pickle,
caper, anchovy, or a horse-radish sauce.  
  
 
  SALMON CUTLETS. Remove
the skin and bone from some slices of  salmon  one-third
of an inch thick; trim them into cutlet shape; sprinkle on 
 pepper,   salt,  and 
 flour,  and dip them into beaten 
 eggs  mixed with a little chopped 
 parsley  or  onion;  then 
 bread-crumb  them. Fry them in boiling 
 lard.  This is the better way, or they may be fried or 
 saut&#233;d  in  butter  in
a   saut&#233;  pan.  Arrange
the pieces one over the other in a circle. Pour a 
 pickle, or   Tartare  sauce,  in the centre. 
 
 
  SLICES OF SALMON
BOILED. If a family is small, and it should not be advisable to buy a
large middle cut of  salmon,  it would be preferable to
buy, for instance, two slices. Boil them very slowly in  acidulated
salted water,  or in the  court
bouillon  with  wine.  Serve them with 
 parsley  between, and a napkin underneath. Serve a 
 sauce Hollandaise  in the 
 sauce-boat.  
 
 
  CANNED SALMON. The
California  canned salmon  is undoubtedly one of the
greatest successes in canning. By keeping a few cans in the house, one is
always ready in any emergency to produce a fine dish of 
 salmon  in a few minutes. It is particularly nice for a
breakfast-dish, heated, seasoned with  pepper  and 
 salt,  placed on thin slices of  buttered
toast,  with a  cream dressing  poured over
all, 
 i.e.,   milk  thickened on the
fire, by stirring it into a  roux  (see
page 51) of  butter  and 
 flour, and seasoned with 
 pepper,   salt,  and a few
pieces of fresh  butter  just before serving. For dinner
it is excellent served with any of the  fish sauces.  
 Salmon  is also nice served in shells, as for trout
(see page 109). 
    SHAD. 
 This delicious fish is undoubtedly best broiled, with a   ma&#238;tre-d'h&#244;tel  sauce;  but it is
good also cut in slices, and 
 saut&#233;d.     TROUT. 
 If large, they may be broiled, boiled, or baked. If boiled or broiled, serve
the  sauce Hollandaise  with them.
Professional  cooks generally boil it in the 
 court bouillon.  Smaller 
 trout  are better egged, rolled in  salted
corn-meal,  and thrown into boiling 
 lard.  
 The trout is a very nice fish for an 
 au gratin,  or stewed, called then 
 en matelote.  
 
  TROUT IN CASES OR IN SHELLS
( en Coquilles ). Parboil little 
 trout;  cut the  fish  into
pieces about an inch long, or into dice; place them in  paper
cases  (which have been buttered or oiled, and placed in the oven a
few moments to harden the paper so as to enable it to hold the 
 sauce ). After partly filling the cases with the pieces
of  fish,  pour over them some fine  herb
sauce  (see page 128), and sprinkle over 
 bread-crumbs;  put them into the oven twenty minutes
before dinner to bake. 
 If shells are used, little plated-silver ones ( scallop
shells ) are preferable. In that case, it would be better to fry the
 fish  (seasoned with  pepper,  
 salt,  and a little 
 lemon-juice ) in a   saut&#233;  pan;  cut them in dice afterward,
and put them in the shells; pour over a fine  herb or a Bechamel
sauce;  strew the top with grated 
 bread-crumbs;  place them a few moments in the oven to
brown the tops, and serve. 
    COD-FISH. 
 
 Fresh  cod-fish  is better boiled. The fish is so large
that it is generally boiled in slices. After it is well salted, 
 horse-radish  and  vinegar  in
the  boiling water  will improve the fish. 
 Oyster-sauce  is the favorite sauce for a boiled 
 cod-fish.   Capers  might be
mixed with the oyster-sauce. Some serve the fish with fresh cod-fish. These
slices may also be broiled an served with a   ma&#238;tre-d'h&#244;tel  sauce,  or they
may be egged and bread-crumbed, and fried in  boiling
lard.  
 
 
  CRIMPED COD-FISH ( Rudmanii ). Soak two slices of 
 cod-fish  one inch thick for two hours in 
 ice-water;  put them into 
 stew-pan,  and, pouring over enough  salted
boiling water  to cover them, let them 
 simmer  for about ten minutes; place them neatly on a platter on a folded napkin,
garnish with  parsley,  and pour into the two cavities a
  Tartare  or a pickle
sauce.  
 
 
  SALT COD-FISH. Soak
this in  water  overnight; parboil it, changing the 
 water  once or twice; separate the flakes. Serve them
on thin slices of  toast,  with an  egg
sauce  poured over. Or, 
  Mince it when boiled in very little 
 water,  which should be changed once; thicken it with 
 butter  and  flour  mixed; cook
about two minutes, then break in several  eggs.  When
the  eggs  are cooked and mixed with the 
 fish,  pour all thin slices of  buttered
toast.   
 
 
  COD-FISH BALLS. Cut the
 cod-fish  in pieces; soak them about an hour in 
 lukewarm water,  when the bones and skin may be easily
removed; pull the  fish  then into fine shreds, and put
it on the stove in some  cold water.  As soon as it
begins to boil, change the  water,  and repeat this
process a second time. It is not proper to boil it, as it renders it tough. As
soon as the  fish  is ready, some 
 potatoes  must be cooked at the same time, 
 i.e.,  boiled tender, and well-mashed while still
hot, with a little  butter  added. Mix half as much 
 cod-fish  as  potatoes  while
both are 
 still hot.  Form them into little balls or thick flat
cakes. Fry them in a little hot  butter  in a 
  saut&#233;  pan,  or immerse
them in boiling-hot  lard.  It makes all the difference
in the flavor of the balls if the  fish  and 
 potatoes  are mixed while both are 
 hot.  Of course, they are better fried at once, but
may be made the night before serving (at breakfast), if they are only properly 
 mixed.  
  
 
  FISH CHOWDER. Cut three
pounds of any kind of fresh  fish  (
 cod-fish  is especially good), one and a half pounds of
 potatoes,  and one large 
 onion (three ounces) into slices; also, half a pound of
 salt pork  into half-inch squares or dice. 
 Put the  pork  and 
 onions into a saucepan, and fry them a 
  light brown; then add a cupful of 
 claret;  and when it boils take it from the fire. 
 Butter a large  stew-pan,  and put in first a layer of 
 potatoes,  then a layer of 
 fish,  then a sprinkle of 
 onions  and  pork  (strained
from the claret),  pepper  and 
 salt,  and continue these alternations until it is all
in, having the  potatoes  on top. Now pour the claret
over the top, and barely cover the whole with  boiling
water.  Cover closely, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes
without disturbing it. 
 In the mean time, bring a pint of  milk  (or, better,
 cream ) to a boil, take it from the fire, and cut into
it three ounces of  butter,  and break in three 
 ship-crackers.  Arrange the slices of 
 fish  and  potatoes  in the
shape of a dome in the centre of a hot platter. Place the softened 
 crackers  (skimmed from the 
 milk ) over the top, and pour over the 
 milk.  Serve very hot. 
 
 
  SMALL PAN-FISH ( Perch, Sun-fish, etc. ) They are generally
preferred peppered, salted, then rolled in  salted
corn-meal,  and fried either in a   saut&#233;  pan  with a little 
 lard  and some slices of 
 pork, or in boiling lard. They make also a good stew 
 en matelote,  or a good 
 au gratin.  Their chief excellence consists in their
being perfectly fresh, and served hot. 
   MACKEREL 
 should be broiled, and served 
 &#224; la
ma&#238;tre-d'h&#244;tel.     SMELTS 
 
 are good salted, peppered, and rolled in  salted
corn-meal  or  flour,  and fried in
boiling-hot  lard,  but better egged and bread-crumbed
before frying. They should be served 
 immediately,  or they will lose their crispness and
flavor. When served as a garnish for a large fish, they should be fried in the
shape of rings. This is easily done by putting the tail of the fish into its
mouth, and holding it with a pin. After it is fried, the pin is withdrawn, as
the fried fish will hold it shape. Place these rings around the fish, with an
additional garnish of parsley and lemon slices; or the rings may be served
alone in a circle around the side of a platter, with a  tomato or a 
 Tartare  sauce  in the centre. 
 
 There can be no prettier manner of serving them alone than one often seen in
Paris. They are fried in the usual manner; then a little silver or
silver-plated  skewer  four inches long is drawn through
two or three of the  smelts,  running it carefully through the
eyes. One skewerful, with a slice of lemon on top, is served for each person at
table. If the silver-plated  skewers  are too extravagant,
little ones of polished wire will answer. 
  
 
  FRIED SLICES OF FISH, WITH
TOMATO SAUCE ( Fish &#224; l'Orlay ). Bone
and skin the  fish,  and cut it into even slices; or if
a  flounder  or any flat  fish is
used, begin at the tail, and, keeping the knife close to the bone, separate
each side of the  fish  neatly from it; then cut each
side in two, lengthwise, leaving the  fish  in four long
pieces. Remove the skin carefully. After having sprinkled 
 pepper  and  salt  over them,
roll each piece first in sifted  cracker or bread
crumbs,  then in half a cupful of 
 milk mixed with an  egg,  and
then in crumbs again. They are better fried in a   saut&#233; pan  in a little hot 
 butter;  yet they may be 
 saut&#233;d  in a little hot 
 lard,  with some neat slices of 
 pork,  or fried in boiling 
 lard.  
 Pour  tomato sauce No. 2  (see page 125) on a hot
platter, arrange the pieces of  fish  symmetrically on
it, and serve immediately. 
 
 
  TO FRY EELS. Skin them,
cut them into four-inch lengths, season them with 
 salt and  pepper,  roll them in 
 flour  or  salted corn-meal, and
fry them in boiling  lard.  Some parboil 
 eels  and  bull-heads,  saying
it removes a muddy taste. I do not think it is necessary. Fried 
 eels  are generally served with a  tomato, a
pickle, or a 
 Tartare  sauce.  
 
 
  EELS STEWED  ( London Cooking-school ). 
 Put three-quarters of a cupful of  butter  into a 
 stew-pan;  when hot, add four small 
 onions  minced fine, which cook to a light-brown color;
add then a table-spoonful of  flour;  when well mixed
and cooked, add two cupfuls of  stock,  a wine-glassful
of  port-wine,  and two  bay
leaves  (the  bay leaves  may be omitted).
Now put in the  eels  (two small ones or one large one),
cut into pieces one inch long. Cover tightly.  
 They will be ready to send to the table in about fifteen minutes, served on
a hot platter, with a circle around them of  toasted or fried slices
of bread  ( cro&#251;tons ),
cut diamond-shaped. 
    SHELL-FISH.   OYSTERS. 
 
  RAW OYSTERS. DRAIN them
well in a  colander,  marinate them, 
 i.e.,  sprinkle over plenty of 
 pepper  and  salt,  and let them
remain in a cold place for at least half an hour before serving. This makes a
great difference in their flavor. They may be served in the half-shell with
quarters or halves of  lemons  in the same dish. I think
a prettier arrangement is to serve them in a block of 
 ice.  Select a ten-pound block; melt with a hot 
 flat-iron  a symmetrical-shaped cavity in the top to hold
the  oysters;  chip also from the sides at the base, so
that the ice-block may stand in a large platter on the napkin. When the 
 oysters  are well salted and peppered, place them in
the ice, and let them remain in some place where the ice will not melt until
the time of serving. The  salt  will help to make the 
 oysters  very cold. The ice may be decorated with 
 leaves  or  smilax vines,  and a
row of  lemon  quarters or halves may be placed around
the platter at the base of the ice. It has an especially pretty effect served
on a table by gas-light. The English often serve little thin squares of 
 buttered brown bread  (like  Boston brown
bread ) with  oysters.  
 
 
  FRIED OYSTERS. Drain
the  oysters  in the 
 colander; sprinkle over  pepper 
and  salt,  which mix well with them, and put them in a
cold place for fifteen or twenty minutes before cooking. This is marinating
them. When ready to cook, roll each one first in sifted 
 cracker-crumbs,  then in beaten 
 egg  mixed with a little 
 milk and seasoned with  pepper 
and  salt,  then in the 
 cracker-crumbs  again. You will please remember the
routine: 
 first,  the crumbs before
  the  egg,  as the 
 egg  will not adhere well to the 
 oyster  without the crumbs; now throw them into
boiling-hot  lard  (as you would fry doughnuts), first
testing to see if it is hot enough. As soon as they assume a light-brown color
they should be drained, and served immediately on a hot platter. 
  Oysters  should not be fried until the persons at
table are ready to eat them, as it takes only a few moments to fry them, and
they are not good unless very hot. 
 The platter of  oysters  may be garnished with a
table-spoonful of chopped  pickles  or 
 chowchow  placed at the four opposite sides; or the 
 oysters  may be served as a border around 
 cold slaw  (see receipt, page 224), when they are an
especially nice course for dinner; or they may be served with 
 celery,  either plain or in salad. As the platter for
the fried  oysters  is hot, the  celery
salad  or cold slaw might be piled on a folded napkin in the
centre. 
 
 
  SCALLOPED OYSTERS IN
SHELLS. They may be served cooked in their shells, or in 
 silver scallop shells,  when they present a better
appearance than when cooked and served all in one dish. 
 If cooked in an  oyster or clam shell,  one large, or
two or three little  oysters  are placed in it, with a
few drops of the  oyster liquor.  It is sprinkled with 
 pepper  and  salt,  and 
 cracker or bread crumbs.  Little pieces of 
 butter  are placed over the top. When all are ready,
they are put into the oven. When they are plump and hot, they are done. Brown
the tops with a  salamander,  or with a red-hot 
 kitchen shovel.  
 If they are cooked in the  silver scallop shells, which
are larger, several  oysters  are served in the one
shell; one or two are put in, peppered, salted, strewed with 
 cracker-crumbs  and small pieces of 
 butter;  then more layers, until the shell is full, or
until enough are used for one person. Moisten them with the 
 oyster-juice,  and strew little pieces of 
 butter  over the top. They are merely kept in the oven
until they are thoroughly hot, then browned with a 
 salamander.  Serve one shell for each person at table,
placed on a small plate. The  oyster  may be bearded or
not. 
  
 
  SCALLOPED
OYSTERS. Ingredients: Three dozen  oysters,  a
large tea-spoonful of  bread or cracker crumbs,  two
ounces of fresh  butter,  
 pepper  and  salt,  half a
tea-cupful of  oyster-juice.  
 Make layers of these ingredients, as described in the last article, in the
top of a  chafing-dish,  or in any kind of pudding or 
  gratin  dish;  bake in a quick
oven about fifteen minutes; brown with a  salamander.  
 
 
  OYSTER STEW. Put a
quart of  oysters  on the fire in their own 
 liquor.  The moment they 
 begin  to boil, skim them out, and add to the liquor
a half-pint of hot  cream,  
 salt,  and  Cayenne pepper  to
taste. Skim it well, take it off the fire, add to the 
 oysters  an ounce and a half of 
 butter  broken into small pieces. Serve
immediately. 
 
 OYSTER SOUP (see page 93). 
 
  OYSTER OR CLAM
FRITTERS.  Oysters  served on 
 buttered toast  for breakfast, or in 
 vols-au-vent,   silver
scallop-shells,  or in paper boxes, are very nice made after the
receipts on page 241). They or the  fricasseed
oysters may be served in either of the above ways. 
 
 
  FRICASSEE OF OYSTERS ( Oyster &#224;
la Boulette ). Put one quart, or twenty-five, 
 oysters  on the fire in their own liquor. The moment it
begins to boil, turn it into a hot dish through a 
 colander,  leaving the  oysters in
the  colander.  Put into the saucepan two ounces of 
 butter  (size of an egg), and when it bubbles sprinkle
in one ounce (a table-spoonful) of sifted  flour;  let
it cook a minute without taking color, stirring it well with a  wire
egg-whisk;  then add, mixing well, a cupful of the 
 oyster liquor.  Take it from the fire and mix in the 
 yolks of two eggs,  a little 
 salt,  a very little  Cayenne
pepper,  one tea-spoonful of 
 lemon-juice, and one grating of 
 nutmeg.  Beat it well; then return it to the fire to
set the  eggs,  without allowing it to boil. Put in the 
 oysters.   
 These  oysters  may be served on thin slices of 
 toast  for breakfast or tea, or in papers ( en papillote ), or as filling for patties for dinner. 
 
 
  TO ROAST CANNED
OYSTERS. Drain them. Put them in a  spider  which
is very hot; turn them in a moment, so that they may cook on both sides. It
only takes a few seconds to cook them. Put them on a hot plate in which there
are  pepper,   salt,  and a
little hot  melted butter.  They should be served
immediately. They have the flavor of the  oyster roasted
in the shell. 
 Some cook them in this manner at table on a 
 chafing-dish  by means of the 
 spirit-lamp.  
 
 
  SPICED OYSTERS  ( Miss Lestlie ). 
 Ingredients: Two hundred  oysters,  one pint of 
 vinegar,  a  nutmeg  grated,
eight blades of whole  mace,  three dozen 
 whole cloves,  one tea-spoonful of 
 salt,  two tea-spoonfuls of whole 
 allspice,  and as much  Cayenne
pepper  as will lie on the point of a knife. 
 Put the  oysters  with their liquor into a large
earthen vessel; add to them the  vinegar  and all the
other ingredients. Stir all well together and set them over a slow fire,
keeping them covered. Stir them to the bottom several times. As soon as they
are well scalded, they are done. To be eaten cold. 
    CLAMS. 
 
  CLAMS COOKED WITH CREAM  ( Mrs. Audenreid ). 
 Chop fifty small  clams  not too fine, and season
them with  pepper  and  salt. Put
into a  stew-pan   butter  the size
of an egg, and when it bubbles sprinkle in a tea-spoonful of 
 flour,  which cook a few minutes; stir gradually into
it the  clam liquor,  then the 
 clams,  which stew about two or three minutes; then add
a cupful of boiling  cream,  and serve immediately. The 
 clams  may or may not be bearded. 
 
 
  CLAM CHOWDER. Put fifty
 clams  on the fire in their own liquor, with a little
   salt.  When they have
boiled about three minutes, strain them, and return the liquor to the fire.
Chop a medium-sized  onion  (two ounces) into small
pieces, and cut six ounces of  pork  into dice. Fry both
a light color in two ounces (size of an egg) of 
 butter;  then stir in three ounces of 
 flour  (two table-spoonfuls). When thoroughly cooked,
add the  clam liquor,  half a pint of good 
 stock  or  milk,  the same
quantity of  cream,  a salt-spoonful of 
 mace,  a salt-spoonful of 
 thyme,   salt  to taste, and
eight ounces of  potatoes  cut into dice. When these are
cooked, and the chowder is about to be sent to table, add the 
 clams  cut in dice, and four ounces of 
 ship-bread  or  crackers  broken
in pieces. 
 
 
  TUNISON CLAM
CHOWDER. Ingredients: Two hundred soft 
 clams, one large  onion,  twenty
large  crackers,  can of 
 tomatoes,   parsley  (chopped
fine), half a pound of  butter,  one large tea-spoonful
of  sweet marjoram,   thyme,  
 sage,   savory,  half a
tea-spoonful of ground  cloves,  and half a tea-spoonful
of  curry.  
 Boil well; then add half a pint of  milk  and half a
pint of  sherry wine.  
 
 CLAM FRITTER (see page 230). 
 CLAM SOUP (see page 93).    CRABS AND LOBSTERS. 
 
  SOFT-SHELL CRABS. Dry
them; sprinkle them with  pepper  and 
 salt;  roll them, first in 
 flour,  then in  egg  (half a
cupful of  milk  mixed in one 
 egg ), then in 
 cracker-dust, and fry them in boiling 
 lard.  
 
 
  DEVILED CRAB. When the 
 crabs  are boiled, take out the 
 meat  and cut it into small pieces (dice); clean well
the shells. 
 To six ounces of  crab meat,  mix two ounces of 
 bread-crumbs,  two  hard-boiled
eggs  chopped, the  juice of half a lemon,  
 Cayenne pepper  and  salt.  Mix
all with  cream  or  cream
sauce,  or, what is still better, a  Bechamel
sauce  (see page 127). Fill the shells
with the mixture, smooth the tops, sprinkle over sifted 
 bread-crumbs,  and color it in a quick oven. 
 
 
  DEVILED LOSTER. is made
in the same way as deviled crab, merely substituting the 
 lobster  for the crab, and adding a grating of 
 nutmeg  to the  seasoning.  In
boiling  lobsters  and crabs, they are sufficiently
cooked when they assume a bright-red color. Too much boiling renders them
tough. 
 
 
  LOBSTER CHOPS. Cut half
a pound of the flesh of a boiled  lobster  into small
dice. Put two ounces of  butter  into a 
 stew-pan,  and when it bubbles sprinkle in two ounces of 
 flour  (one table-spoonful). Cook it; then pour in a
cupful of boiling  cream  and the  lobster
dice.  Stir it until it is scalding hot; then take it from the
fire, and, when slightly cooled, stir in the beaten  yolks of three
eggs,  a grating of  nutmeg,  a little 
 Cayenne pepper,  and  salt  to
taste. Return the mixture to the fire, and stir it long enough to well set the 
 eggs.  
 Butter a platter, on which spread the 
 lobster mixture half an inch deep. When cold, form it
into the shape of chops, pointed at one end; 
 bread-crumb,   egg, and crumb
them again, and fry them in boiling  lard. Stick a 
 claw  into the end of each  lobster
chop  after it is cooked. 
 Place the chops in a circle, overlapping each other, on a napkin. Decorate
the dish by putting the  tail of the lobster  in the
centre, and its  head,  with the long horns, on the
tail. Around the outside of the circle of chops arrange the 
 legs,  cut an inch each side of the middle joints, so
that they will form two equal sides of a triangle. 
 
 
  A GOOD WAY TO PREPARE A
LOBSTER. Put into a saucepan  butter  the size
of a small egg, and a tea-spoonful of minced 
 onion. When it has cooked, sprinkle in a tea-spoonful
of  flour,  which cook also; then stir in one cupful of
the water  in which the 
 lobster was boiled, one cupful of 
 milk,  one cupful of strong  veal or beef
stock,   pepper, and 
 salt:   add the 
 meat  of the boiled 
 lobster, and when quite hot pour all in the centre of a
hot platter. Decorate the dish with the  lobster's head 
in the centre,  fried-bread diamonds  (
 cro&#251;tons ) around the outside; or
in any prettier way you choose, with the abundant resources of 
 lobster legs  and trimmings. 
    FROGS. 
 Frogs are such a delicacy that it is a pity not to prepare them with
care. 
 The hind legs only are used. They may be made into a broth the same as
chicken broth, and are considered a very advantageous diet for those suffering
with pulmonary affections. 
 
  FROGS FRIED. Put them
in  salted boiling water,  with a little 
 lemon-juice,  and boil them three minutes; wipe them;
dip them first in  cracker-dust,  then in 
 eggs  (half a cupful of 
 milk mixed in two  eggs  and
seasoned with  pepper  and 
 salt ), then again in 
 cracker-crumbs.  When they are all breaded, clean off
the bone at the end with a dry cloth. Put them in a wire basket and dip them in
boiling  lard,  to fry. Put a little paper (see page 61)
on the end of each bone; place them on a hot platter, in the form of a circle,
one overlapping the other, with  French pease in the
centre. Serve immediately, while they are still crisp and hot. 
     SAUCES. 
 THE French say the English only know how to make one kind of sauce, and a
poor one at that. Notwithstanding the French understand the sauce question, it
is very convenient to make the drawn butter, and, by adding different
flavorings, make just so many kinds of sauce. For instance, by adding capers,
shrimps, chopped pickles, anchovy paste, chopped boiled eggs, lobster, oysters,
parsley, cauliflower, etc., one has caper, shrimp, pickle, anchovy, egg, and
the other sauces. The drawn-butter sauce is simple, yet few make it properly,
managing generally  to have it insipid, and with
flour uncooked. If a housekeeper has any pride about having a good table, she
will be amply repaid for learning some of the French sauces, which are, at
last, simple enough. We are often frightened to see many items in a receipt; we
shake our heads dubiously at the trouble and extravagance of one receipt
mentioning thyme, nutmeg, bay-leaf, mace, shallot, capers, pepper-corns,
parsley, and last of all the horrors, stock. As far as the herbs are concerned,
an investment of twenty-five cents will purchase enough mace, thyme,
bay-leaves, and pepper-corns for a year's supply of abundant sauces, to say
nothing of their uses for braising, 
 blanquettes,  etc. Five cents' worth of shallots
should last a long time; they are sold in all city markets, being only young
forced onions. Capers would be extravagant if a bottleful, costing sixty cents,
would not last a year in a small-sized family. I have already said enough about
stock to show that one must be very incompetent if a little of it can not be at
hand, made of trimmings and cheap pieces of meat and bones. 
 The use of mushrooms and truffles, which are comparatively cheap in France,
can not be extensively introduced here. A little tin can, holding about a gill
of tasteless truffles, costs three or four dollars; however, mushrooms are much
less expensive, and infinitely better. A can of mushrooms costs forty cents,
and is sufficient for several sauces and 
 entr&#233;es.  
 Some persons raise mushrooms in their cellars. A small, rich bed in a dark
place where the soil will not freeze, planted with mushroom spawn, will yield
enough mushrooms for the family, and the neighbors besides, with very little
trouble and expense. 
 The French white sauces differ from the English white sauce, as they are
made with strong white stock, prepared with veal, or chickens, or both, and
some vegetables for a basis. If one would learn to make the 
 sauce Bechamel,  it will be found an easy affair to
prepare many delicious 
 entr&#233;es,  such as chicken in shells ( en coquille ), or in papers ( en
papillote ), and mushrooms in crust ( cro&#251;te aux
champignons ). 
 For boiled fish the 
 sauce Hollandaise  is a decided success. In Paris
every one speaks of the delicious sauce, and bribes
  the 
 chef de cuisine  for the receipt. It is made without
stock, and is very simple. 
 For fried fish the perfection of accompaniments is the 
 sauce Tartare --a mere addition of some capers,
shallots, parsley, and pickles to the 
 sauce Mayonnaise.  
 When tomatoes are so abundant, it is unpardonable that one should never
serve a tomato sauce with a beefsteak, and a score of other meat dishes. 
 For a chicken or a lobster salad, learn unquestionably the 
 sauce Mayonnaise.  
 In the thickening of sauces, let it be remembered that butter and flour
should be well cooked together before the sauce is added, to prevent the flour
from tasting uncooked. In butter sauces, however, only enough butter should be
used to cook the flour, the remainder added, cut in pieces, after the sauce is
taken from the fire. This preserves it flavor. 
 
  DRAWN-BUTTER
SAUCE. Ingredients: Three ounces of 
 butter, one ounce of  flour, 
half a pint of  water  (or, better,  white
stock ), and a pinch of  salt  and 
 pepper.  
 Put two ounces of the  butter  into a 
 stew-pan,  and when it bubbles, sprinkle in the 
 flour;  stir it well with a  wire
egg-whisk  until the  flour  is thoroughly
cooked without taking color, and then mix in well the half-pint of 
 water  or  stock.  Take it off
the fire, pass it through a sieve or  gravy-strainer,  and
stir in the other ounce of  butter  cut in pieces. When
properly mixed and melted, it is ready for use. This makes a pint of sauce. 
 Some persons like drawn-butter sauce slightly acid, in which case add a few
drops of  vinegar  or 
 lemon-juice  just before serving. 
 
 
  PICKLE SAUCE. Make a 
 drawn-butter sauce;  just before serving add two or
three table-spoonfuls of  pickled cucumbers  chopped or
minced very fine. 
 
 
  BOILED-EGG SAUCE. Add
to half a pint of  drawn-butter sauce  three 
 hard-boiled eggs,  chopped not too fine. 
  
 
  CAPER SAUCE. Make a 
 drawn-butter sauce --or, say, melt two ounces of 
 butter  in a saucepan; add a table-spoonful of 
 flour;  when the two are well mixed, add 
 pepper  and  salt,  and a little
less than a pint of  boiling water.  Stir the sauce on
the fire until it thickens, then add three table-spoonfuls of 
 French capers.  Removing the saucepan from the fire,
stir into the sauce the  yolk of an egg  beaten with the
 juice of half a lemon.  
 
 
  ANCHOVY SAUCE. Add to
half a pint of  drawn-butter sauce  two tea-spoonfuls of
 anchovy extract,  or  anchovy
paste.  
 
 
  SHRIMP SAUCE. To half a
pint of  drawn-butter sauce  add one-third of a pint of 
 pickled boiled shrimps,  whole, or chopped a little.
Add at last moment a few drops of  lemon-juice,  and a
very little  Cayenne pepper.  Let the sauce 
 simmer,  not boil. Some add a tea-spoonful of 
 anchovy paste;  more, perhaps, prefer it without the 
 anchovy  flavor. 
 Shrimps are generally sold at market already boiled. If they are not boiled,
throw them into  salted boiling water,  and boil them
until they are quite red. When cold, pick off the heads, and peel off the
shells. Always have a few of the shrimps whole for garnishing the dish. 
 
 
  LOBSTER SAUCE. Before
proceeding to make this sauce, break up the  coral of the
lobster,  and put it on a paper in a slow oven for half an hour;
then pound it in a  mortar,  and sprinkle it over the
boiled  fish  when it is served. To prepare the sauce
itself, chop the  meat of the tail and claws of a good-sized
lobster  into pieces, not too small. Half an hour before dinner,
make half a pint of  drawn-butter sauce.  Add to it the
chopped  lobster,  a pinch of 
 coral,  a small pinch of 
 Cayenne,  and a little  salt. An
English lady says: "This process seems simple, yet nothing is rarer in cookery
than good lobster sauce. The  means of spoiling it
are chiefly by chopping the  lobster  too small, or,
worse, pounding it, inserting contents of the head, or using milk, or anchovy,
or any sauces. It should not be a half-solid mass, or thin liquid, but the 
 lobster  should be distinct in a creamy bed." 
 
 
  OYSTER SAUCE. Make a 
 drawn-butter or white sauce;  add a few drops of 
 lemon  or a table-spoonful of 
 capers,  or, if neither be at hand, a few drops of 
 vinegar;  add  oysters  strained
from their liquor, and let them just come to a boil in the sauce. 
 This sauce is much better made with part  cream,  
 i.e.,  used when making the  drawn-butter
sauce,  instead of all  water.  In this
case, do not add the  lemon-juice  or 
 vinegar.  Some make the white sauce of the 
 oyster liquor,  instead of 
 water.  
 This sauce may be served in a  sauce-boat,  but it is
nicer to pour it over the fish, boiled turkey, or chicken. 
 
 
  PARSLEY SAUCE ( for Boiled Fish or Fowls ). To half a pint of hot 
 drawn-butter sauce  add two table-spoonfuls of chopped 
 parsley.  The appearance of the sauce is improved by
coloring it with a little  spinach-green  (see page
87). 
 
 
  CAULIFLOWER SAUCE ( for Boiled Poultry ). Add boiled 
 cauliflowers,  cut into little flowerets, to a 
 drawn-butter sauce  made with part 
 cream.  
 
 
  LEMON SAUCE ( for Boiled Fowls ). To half a pint of 
 drawn-butter sauce  add the inside of a 
 lemon,  chopped (seeds taken out), and the 
 chicken liver  boiled and mashed fine. 
 
 
  CHICKEN SAUCE ( to serve with Boiled or Stewed Fowls ). Put 
 butter  the size of an egg into a bright saucepan, and
when it bubbles add a table-spoonful of  flour;  cook
it, and add a pint, or rather less, of  boiling
water; when smooth, take it from the fire, and add the beaten 
 yolks of two or three eggs,  and a few drops of 
 lemon-juice,   pepper,  and 
 salt.  Or,  
   Stock  can be used instead of boiling
water, when two or three small slices of  onion  are
placed in the  butter  after it begins to bubble, and
then allowed to cook yellow; after the  flour  is
cooked,  stock  is added instead of water, and when
smooth, it is taken from the fire, a few drops of 
 lemon-juice,   pepper,  and 
 salt  are added, and the sauce is strained through the 
 gravy strainer  or sieve, to remove the pieces of 
 onion.   
 
 
  MA&#238;TRE-D'H&#244;TEL
BUTTER ( for Beefsteak, Broiled Meat, or
Fish ). Mix butter  the size of an egg,
the  juice of half a lemon,  and two or three sprigs of 
 parsley,  chopped very fine; 
 pepper  and  salt  all together.
Spread this over any broiled meat or fish when hot; then put the dish into the
oven a few moments, to allow the  butter  to penetrate
the meat. 
 
 
  MINT SAUCE ( for Roast Lamb ). Put four table-spoonfuls of
chopped  mint,  two table-spoonfuls of 
 sugar,  and a quarter of a pint of 
 vinegar  into the  sauce-boat. Let
it remain an hour or two before dinner, that the 
 vinegar  may become impregnated with the 
 mint.  
 
 
  CURRANT-JELLY SAUCE ( for Venison ). A simple sauce made of 
 currant jelly  melted with a little 
 water  is very nice;
yet Francatelli's  receipt is much better, viz.: 
  "Bruise half a stick of  cinnamon  and six
 cloves;  put them into a 
 stew-pan  with one ounce of 
 sugar  and the  peel of half a
lemon,  pared off very thin, and perfectly free from any portion of
white pulp; moisten this with one and a half sherry-glassfuls of 
 port-wine,  and set the whole to gently simmer or heat
on the stove for half an hour; then strain it into a small 
 stew-pan  containing half a glassful of 
 currant jelly.  Just before sending the sauce to the
table, set it on the fire to boil, in order to melt the  currant
jelly,  and so that it may mix with the essence of spice,
etc."  
 
 
  TOMATO SAUCE (No.
1). Stew six  tomatoes  half an hour with two 
 cloves,  a sprig of  parsley,  
 pepper,  and  salt;  press this
through a sieve; put a little  butter  into a saucepan
over the fire, and when it bubbles and  a heaping
tea-spoonful of  flour;  mix and cook it well, and add
the  tomato-pulp,  stirring until it is smooth and
consistent. 
 Some add one or two slices of  onion  at first. It is
a decided improvement to add three or four table-spoonfuls of 
 stock;  however, the sauce is very good without it, and
people are generally too careless to have  stock  at
hand. 
 
 
  TOMATO SAUCE (No.
2). Ingredients: One-quart can of 
 tomatoes, two  cloves,  one
small sprig of  thyme,  two sprigs of 
 parsley, half a small 
 bay-leaf,  three  pepper-corns, 
three  allspice, two slices of 
 carrot  (one and a half ounces), one-ounce 
 onion  (one small  onion ), one
and a half ounces of  butter  (size of a pigeon's egg),
one and a half ounces of  flour  (one
table-spoonful). 
 Put the  tomatoes  over the fire with all the above
ingredients but the  butter  and 
 flour,  and when they have boiled about twenty minutes
strain them through a sieve. Make a  roux by putting the  butter 
into a  stew-pan,  and when it bubbles sprinkle in the 
 flour,  which let cook, stirring it well; then pour in
the  tomato-pulp;  when it is well mixed, it is ready
for use. 
 
 
  SAUCE HOLLANDAISE, OR DUTCH
SAUCE. As this is one of the best sauces ever made for boiled fish,
asparagus, or cauliflower, I will give two receipts. The first
is Dubois';  the second is from
the Cooking-school in New York.  None should call
themselves cooks unless they know how to make the 
 sauce Hollandaise,  and simple enough it is. 
 1st. "Pour four table-spoonfuls of good  vinegar into
a small  stew-pan,  and add some 
 pepper-corns  and  salt;  let
the liquid boil until it is reduced to half; let it cool; then add to it the
well-beaten  yolks of four or five eggs,  also four
ounces (size of an egg) of good  butter,  more 
 salt,  if necessary, and a very little 
 nutmeg.  Set the  stew-pan  on a
very slow fire, and stir the liquid until it is about as thick as cream;
immediately remove it. Now put this  stew-pan  or cup into
another pan containing a little  warm water  kept at the
side of the fire. Work the sauce briskly with a spoon, or with a little 
 whisk,  so as to get it frothy, but adding little bits of
 butter,  in all about three
  ounces" ( I  would say
the size of half an egg). "When the sauces has become light and smooth, it is
ready for use." 
  2d. "Put a piece of  butter  the size of a
pigeon's egg into a saucepan, and when it bubbles stir in with an 
 egg-whisk  an even table-spoonful of 
 flour;  let it continue to bubble until the 
 flour  is thoroughly cooked, when stir in half a pint
of  boiling water,  or, better, of  veal
stock;  when it boils, take it from the fire, and stir into it
gradually the beaten  yolks of four eggs;  return the
sauce to the fire for a minute, to set the 
 eggs, without allowing it to boil; again remove the
sauce, stir in the  juice of half a small lemon,  and
fresh  butter  the size of a walnut, cut into small
pieces, to facilitate its melting, and stir all well with the 
 whisk. "  
 
 
  MUSHROOMS, FOR GARNISH ( Gouff&#233; ) Separate the button part from the
stalk; then peel them with a sharp knife, cutting off merely the skin. Put them
into a  stew-pan  with a table-spoonful of 
 lemon-juice  and two table-spoonfuls of 
 water.  Toss them well, to impregnate them with the
liquid. The object of the  lemon-juice  is to keep them
white. Then put them on a sharp fire in  boiling
water, with some  butter  added. When they
are boiled tender they are ready for use, 
 i.e.,  for garnishing and for sauces. 
 
 
  MUSHROOM SAUCE ( to serve with Beefsteaks, Fillets of Beef,
etc. ). Having prepared the  mushrooms by
cutting off the stalks, and if they are large, by cutting them in halves or
quarters, throw them into a little  boiling water,  or,
what is much better,  stock.  Do not use more than is
necessary to cover them. This must be seasoned with 
 salt,   pepper,  and a little 
 butter.  Boil the 
 mushrooms until they are tender, then thicken the 
 gravy  slightly with a  roux  of  butter  and 
 flour.  Add a few drops of 
 lemon-juice.  It is now ready to pour over the
 meat.  
 
 
  MUSHROOM WHITE SAUCE ( to serve with
Boiled Fowls or with Cutlets. ) Prepare the 
 mushrooms  as for garnishing; boil them tender in rich 
 white stock, made of veal or chicken;  thicken with a 
 roux  of 
 butter and  flour,  and add one
or two table-spoonfuls of  cream.  
  
 
  MUSHROOM SAUCE ( made with Canned Mushrooms ). Put a piece of 
 butter  the size of a walnut into a small 
 stew-pan  or tin basin, and when it bubbles add a
tea-spoonful (not heaping) of  flour;  when well cooked,
stir in a cupful of  stock  (reduced and strong), and
half a tea-cupful of the  mushroom-juice  from the can;
let it simmer for a minute or two; then, after straining it, add half or three
quarters of a can of  mushrooms,  
 pepper,   salt,  and a few drops
of  lemon-juice.  When thoroughly hot it is ready to
pour over the meat. 
 
 
  A SIMPLE BECHAMEL
SAUCE. Put  butter  the size of a walnut into a
 stew-pan,  and when it bubbles stir in an even
table-spoonful of  flour,  which cook thoroughly without
letting it take color. Mix into the  roux a cupful of strong hot  veal
stock  ( i.e.,  
 veal  put into  cold water  and
boiled four or five hours), a cupful of boiling  steam, 
and one grating of  nutmeg;  let it simmer, stirring it
well for a few minutes, then strain, and it is ready for use. The sauce would
be improved if the usual  soup-bunch vegetables  were
added to the  stock  while it is being made. 
 
 
  BECHAMEL SAUCE. Ingredients: One pint of 
 veal stock  (a  knuckle of
veal put into one gallon of  cold water, 
boiled five hours, skimmed and strained), half an ounce of 
 onion  (quarter of a rather small one), quarter of an
ounce of  turnip (quarter of a 
 turnip ), one ounce of  carrot 
(quarter of a good-sized  carrot ), half an ounce of 
 parsley  (two sprigs), quarter of a 
 bay-leaf,  half a sprig of 
 thyme,  three 
 pepper-corns, half a lump of 
 sugar,  a small blade of 
 mace.  
 Put one ounce (size of a walnut) of  butter  into a 
 stew-pan,  and when hot add to it all the above
ingredients but the  stock  and the 
 mace;  fry this slowly until it assumes a yellow color;
do not let it brown, as the sauce should be  white  when
done; stir in now a table-spoonful (one ounce) of 
 flour,  which let cook a minute, and add the blade of 
 mace  and the  stock  (boiling)
from another  stew-pan.  After it has all simmered about
  five minutes, strain it through a sieve without
allowing the vegetables to pass through; return the strained sauce to the fire,
reduce it by boiling about one-third, when add three or four table-spoonfuls of
good thick  cream,  and the sauce is ready. 
 
 
  SAUCE AUX FINES
HERBS. Ingredients: Half a pint of good 
 stock,  three table-spoonfuls of 
 mushrooms,  one table-spoonful of 
 onions,  two table-spoonfuls of 
 parsley,  and one  shallot,  all
chopped fine. Fry the  shallot  and 
 onion  in a little  butter until
they assume a light-yellow color, then add a tea-spoonful of 
 flour  and cook it a minute; stir in the 
 stock,   mushrooms,  and 
 parsley,  and  salt  to taste.
If no  Worcestershire sauce  is at hand, add 
 pepper  to taste in its place. 
 
 
  SAUCE TARTARE ( a Cold Sauce ). To a scant half pint of 
  Mayonnaise  sauce  (made with
the  mustard  added) mix in two table-spoonfuls of 
 capers,  one small 
 shallot (quarter of a rather small 
 onion,  a poor substitute), two 
 gerkins  (or two ounces of  cucumber
pickle ), and one table-spoonful of 
 parsley,  all chopped 
 very  fine. This  sauce  will
keep a long time, and is delicious for fried fish, fried oysters, boiled
cod-fish, boiled tongue, or as dressing for a salad. 
 
 By making the following simple sauce, one can produce several by a little
variation. 
 
  A SIMPLE BROWN
SAUCE. Put into a saucepan a table-spoonful of minced 
 onion  and a little 
 butter. When it has taken color, sprinkle in a heaping
tea-spoonful of  flour;  stir well, and when brown add
half a pint of  stock.  Cook it a few minutes, and
strain. Now, by adding a cupful of  claret,  two 
 cloves,  a sprig of 
 parsley, and one of  thyme,  a 
 bay-leaf,  pepper,  and 
 salt,  and by boiling two or three minutes and
straining it, one has the  sauce
poivrade.  
  If, instead of the claret, one should add to the 
  poivrade  sauce  a
table-spoonful each of minced  cucumber pickles,  
 vinegar,  and  capers,  one has
the  sauce piquante.   
 
  By adding one tea-spoonful of  made
mustard,  the  juice of half a lemon,  and a
little  vinegar  to the 
 poivrade,  instead of the claret, one has the 
 sauce Robert.   
    BEEF. 
 FOR a roast of beef, the sirloin and tenderloin cuts are considered the
best. They are more expensive, and are no better than the best cuts of a rib
roast: the sixth, seventh, and eighth ribs are the choicest cuts. The latter
roasts are served to better advantage by requesting the butcher to remove the
bones and roll the meat. Always have him send the bones also, as they are
valuable acquisition to the  soup-pot.  As the rolled ribs
roasts are shaved evenly off and across the top when carved (the roasts are to
be cooked rare, of course), they present an equally good appearance for a
second cooking. I have really served a roast a third time to good advantage,
serving it the last time 
 &#224; la jardini&#232;re.  Of course, in summer
large cuts should not be purchased. 
 If the animal is young and large, and the meat is of clear, bright-red
color, and the fat white, the meat is sure to be tender and juicy. 
 There is no better sauce for a good, juicy roast of beef than the simple
juice of the meat. Horse-radish sauce may be served if the beef is not
particularly good. 
 If a sauce is made by adding hot water, flour, pepper, and salt to the
contents of the  baking-pan  after the beef is cooked, do
not serve it with a half-inch depth of pure grease on top in the 
 sauce-boat.  This is as absurd, when it can be allowed to
stand a moment and simply 
 poured off,  or taken off with a spoon, as to serve
wet salt at table, which can easily be placed in the oven a few moments to dry,
before sifting. Also, this kind of  baking-pan  sauce
would not be so very objectionable, if cooks generally knew that it does not
require a scientific education, nor a herculean effort, to strain it through a 
 gravy-strainer.   
 
  TO ROAST OR BAKE
BEEF. A few rules for roasting and baking 
 beef:  Allow nine minutes to the pound for 
 baking  a  rolled
rib-roast; for 
 roasting  it, allow ten minutes to the pound. 
 Sirloin roasts  require
eight  An illustration of a roast served on a round
platter and garnished with leafy
vegetables.  minutes to the pound for baking, nine
minutes for roasting. 
 To bake, have the oven very hot. Before putting in the 
 meat,  sprinkle over  pepper and
 salt,  and dredge with  flour. 
Pour a little  boiling water  into the pan before
baking. Baste frequently. 
 To roast, have a bright fire. Hang the joint about eighteen inches from it
at first, put a little  clarified dripping  into the 
 dripping-pan,  baste the 
 meat with it when first prepared to cook, and every
fifteen minutes afterward. Twenty minutes before the 
 beef  is done, sprinkle with 
 pepper  and  salt,  dredge with 
 flour,  baste with a little 
 butter  or dripping. Keep the fire bright, and turn the
 meat  before it. It should be well browned and frothed.
The cut, a  rolled rib roast,  with  mashed
potatoes.  
 
 
  YORKSHIRE
PUDDING. Ingredients: Six large table-spoonfuls of 
 flour,  three  eggs  (well
beaten), one salt-spoonful of  salt,  enough 
 milk  to make it of the consistency of soft custard
(about one and a half pints). 
 Add enough  milk  to the 
 flour  and  salt  to make a
smooth, stiff batter; add the  eggs,  and enough more 
 milk  to make it of the proper consistency. Beat all
well together, pour it into a shallow pan (buttered); bake three-quarters of an
hour. 
 Some empty the  dripping-pan  three-quarters of an hour
before baked beef is done, and put the pudding into the empty pan, the 
 beef  on a three-cornered stand over it, that its 
 juice  may drop on the pudding. If 
 beef  is roasted, the pudding may be first baked in the
oven, then placed under the  beef  for fifteen or twenty
minutes, to catch any stray drops. It is as often served, though, baked in the
oven in the ordinary way.  
 It is cut into squares and served on a hot plate, to be eaten with 
 roast beef.  It is favorite English dish. 
 
 
  BEEF &#224; LA
MODE. Six or seven pounds from a  round of
beef  are generally selected; however, there is a cut from the 
 shoulder  which answers very well for an 
 &#224;-la mode  beef. If the round is used, extract
the bone. Make several deep incisions into the 
 meat with a thin sharp knife; press into most of them 
 lardoons of pork  about half an inch square, and two or
three inches long; in the other cuts, and especially the one from whence the
bone was extracted, stuff almost any kind of 
 force-meat,  the simplest being as follows: Mix some
soaked  bread  with a little chopped 
 beef-suet,   onion,  any
 herbs,  such as  parsley,  
 thyme,  or  summer savory;  a
little  egg,   Cayenne pepper,  
 salt,  and  cloves.  Press the 
 beef  into shape, round or oval, and tie it
securely. 
 Put  trimmings of pork  into the bottom of a large
saucepan or iron pot, and when hot put over the 
 meat; brown it all over by turning all sides to the
bottom of the pot, which should now be uncovered. This will take about half an
hour. Next sprinkle over a heaping table-spoonful of 
 flour,  and brown that also. Put a small plate under
the  beef,  to prevent burning, and fill the pot with
enough  boiling water  to half cover the 
 meat;  throw over a saucerful of sliced 
 onions,   carrots,  some 
 turnips,  if you like, and some 
 parsley.  There are iron pots, with tight iron covers,
which are made expressly for this kind of cooking; but if you have none of this
description, you will now have to cover the one used with enough covers,
towels, etc., to make it tight as possible, so that the 
 meat  may be cooked in the steam. Let it cook for four
or five hours, never allowing the  water  to stop
boiling. Watch it, that it may not get too low, and replenish it with 
 boiling water.  When the 
 meat is done, put it on a hot platter; strain the 
 gravy, skim off every particle of 
 fat,  add two or three table-spoonfuls of 
 port or sherry wine,  also 
 pepper  and  salt,  if
necessary, and pour this  gravy  and selected pieces of
the vegetables over the  meat.  
 Baked  onions  (see page 201), placed around the 
 beef  as a garnish, complete the dish for a course at
dinner. 
  
 
  BRAISED BEEF (No. 1). -- New York Cooking-school.  
 Ingredients: Six-pounds  loin of beef,  half a pound
of  pork,  three-fourths of a cupful of 
 flour,  two-ounce  onion  (one
small  onion ), three-ounce 
 carrot  (half a large  carrot ),
one-ounce  turnip,  one-third of a bunch of 
 parsley,  one sprig of 
 thyme, two  cloves,  three 
 allspice, six  pepper-corns, 
half of a  bay-leaf.  
 Trim the  beef  into a shapely piece; stick a knife
quite through different portions of it, in which apertures press slices or 
 lardoons of pork,  half an inch square, and three or
four inches long. Tie the  beef  into shape with twine.
Lay scraps of  pork  on the bottom of a saucepan, place
it on a brisk fire, and when hot put in the  beef; brown
it all over by turning the different sides to the bottom of the uncovered
saucepan. It will take about half an hour to brown it. Now sprinkle over the 
 beef  three-fourths of a cupful of 
 flour  (three ounces), also the vegetables and 
 spices;  and brown all this by again turning the 
 meat  over the fire. When they are of fine color, pour
over a tumblerful of  claret,  which reduce to half;
then fill the saucepan with boiling  stock  or 
 water;  cover it tightly, and place it in a hot oven
for two and a half hours. When done, put the  beef  on a
hot platter. 
 Strain the  sauce in which the beef was cooked,  take
off every particle of fat, season with more  salt,  if
necessary; pour about half a cupful of it over the 
 beef  in the platter, and serve the remainder in a 
 sauce-boat.  
 The  beef  may be surrounded with  green
pease,  prepared as follows: Wash a can of  American
pease  in  cold water,  then put them over
the fire with half a cupful of  boiling water,  
 salt,   pepper,  one ounce of 
 butter,  and one salt-spoonful of 
 sugar.  When the  pease  have
simmered a minute, strain them from their liquor, and place them in the platter
around the  beef.  
 
 
  BRAISED BEEF (No.
2). The same cut which is used for an 
 &#224;-la-mode  beef may be braised in the same
manner as is described for a  fillet of beef  braised.
This may be served with the  gravy,  as it there
described, or with the addition of the   jardini&#232;re  of vegetables.  
  
 
  BRAISED BEEF, WITH HORSE-RADISH
SAUCE. Braise five pounds of fresh  beef  (not
too lean), with an  onion  and a 
 carrot  sliced, two or three sprigs of 
 parsley,  four or five 
 cloves, a little  celery,  if
you have it,  pepper,   salt, 
and about a quart of  boiling water.  Cover it tightly,
and let it cook about three hours, replenishing with a little 
 boiling water,  if the steam escapes too much. 
  Sauce. --Simmer together for quarter
of an hour half a cupful of  grated cracker,  half a
cupful of grated  horse-radish,  one cupful of 
 cream,  a table-spoonful of the  fat from
the top of the water in which the beef is cooked,  
 salt,  and  pepper.  
 Place the  beef  on the platter in which it is to be
served, and pour the  sauce  around it. Garnish with 
 parsley.  
 
 
  FILLET OF BEEF. I will
be very specific about the  fillet of beef,  as it is
easily managed at home, and is very expensive ordered from the 
 restaurateur.  His price is generally ten dollars for
a dressed and cooked  fillet of beef  for a dinner for
ten or twelve persons. To buy it from the butcher costs a dollar a pound when
dressed; three pounds are quite sufficient for ten or twelve persons. To lard
it (an affair of ten minutes) would cost ten cents more; a box of 
 French canned mushrooms,  an additional forty cents; a
little  stock,  five cents. 
 One sees a  fillet of beef  at almost every dinner
party. "That same fillet, with mushrooms," a frequent diner-out will say. I
hope to see it continued, for among the substantials there is nothing more
satisfactory. 
 A good butcherw ill always deliver a  fillet of
beef already dressed; if, however, it is necessary to have it
dressed at home, the 
 modus operandi  is as follows: 
 
 
  TO TRIM A FILLET OF
BEEF. The fillet is the under side of the  loin of
beef.  The  steaks  cut from this part are
called  porter-house-steaks.  This under side, or
fillet, is covered with skin and fat. "All the skin and fat must be removed
from the top of the fillet, from one end to the other; then the rib-bones are disengaged. The fat adhering to
the side opposite the ribs is only partially removed. Now the sinewy skin
covering the upper  meat  of the fillet must be removed
in strips, proceeding by slipping the blade of the knife between the skin and
the  meat.  This operation is very simple; yet it
requires great precision. The upper part of a trimmed fillet must be smooth, 
 i.e.,  must not be furrowed by hollows occasioned by
wrong movements of the knife. The skin being removed, both extremities of the
fillet are rounded. The fat inside the rib is the only portion of fat allowed
to adhere to the  meat.  The larding of the 
 meat  is applied to its upper surface." 
 
 
  TO COOK A FILLET OF
BEEF. After it is trimmed and larded, put it into a small 
 baking-pan,  in the bottom of which are some chopped
pieces of  pork  and 
 beef-suet; sprinkle some  salt 
and  pepper over it, and put a large ladleful of hot 
 stock  into the bottom of the pan, or it may be simply
basted with  boiling water.  Half an hour (if the oven
is very hot, as it should be) before dinner, put it into the oven. Baste it
often, supplying a little hot  stock,  if necessary. 
 French cooks often braise a  fillet of beef.  I do
not like it as well as baking or roasting, as the 
 vegetables  and  wine  destroy
the beef's own flavor. 
 
 
  TO MAKE THE MUSHROOM
SAUCE. Take a ladleful of  stock,  free from
grease, from the  stock-pot;  add to it part of the 
 juice from the can of mushrooms;  thicken it with a
little  flour  and  butter  mixed
( roux ); add 
 pepper,   salt,  and a few drops
of  lemon-juice;  now add the 
 mushrooms --let them simmer a few minutes. Pour the 
 sauce  over the  fillet of
beef,  and serve.   A larded fillet of
beef divided into three sections. The middle section has been removed and
placed a space away from the two ends of the fillets, which remain further
back.  
 At small dinner companies, where the host carves, or has a good carver, the
fillet can be served entire, decorated as elaborately as one wishes. If,
however, the dinner  is served from the side, it
is convenient to have it carved as shown in cut on preceding page. The centre
of the fillet is disengaged, then carved, and returned to its place. It has
then the appearance of being whole. 
 
 
  TO GARNISH A FILLET OF
BEEF. As I have mentioned before, a  fillet of
beef  is generally served with 
 mushrooms; sometimes with different 
 vegetables 
 &#224; la jardini&#232;re;  
sometimes with  French pease;  sometimes with 
 potatoes  cut into little round balls, and fried in
boiling  lard,  called  potatoes 
 &#224; la Parisienne   on a French bill
of fare, sometimes  A larded fillet of beef served on
a large oval platter. A ring of garnishes surrounds the
beef.  with  stuffed
tomatoes;  sometimes  skewers  are put in
stuck through a  turnip  carved into a cup, and this cup
holds  horse-radish.  But some people say 
 skewers  remind them of steamboat cooking; then some
people are not easily pleased, anyway; and who remembers of having seen so many
 skewers  on steamboats, after all? Not that I am
particularly advocating  skewers,  but I think dishes 
 taste  better, as a general thing, when they are
decorated in almost any manner. I once saw at a dinner in Paris hot slices of
roast or baked  fillet of beef,  tastefully arranged on
a platter, with  sauce Hollandaise (rather
thick) poured over each slice in the form of a ring. It was a success. 
 The manner of garnishing a  fillet of beef  
 &#224; la Godard  and 
 &#224; la Proven&#231;ale,  etc., with 
 truffles,   quenelles,   livers,  
 olives,  etc., all stewed with 
 wines,   stocks,  etc., I will
not explain. It is enough to make one groan to think of learning to make them,
and more than ever to eat them. 
 
 
  TO ROAST A FILLET OF
BEEF. Lard it, and bind it carefully to the 
 skewer  with a small  wire;
cover the fillet with  sweet salad-oil  and a little 
 lemon-juice.  Do not place it too near the fire at
first, as it would scorch the larding. Baste it frequently. 
 A professional cook would glaze the fillet two or three times with a 
 glazing-brush,  beginning the first time about five
minutes before taking it away from the fire, then glazing it again when it is
on the dish to be served. 
 Glaze is merely strong  stock  boiled down until it
is almost a thick jelly. When the fillet is carved at table, the little 
 juice  which falls into the dish should be poured over
each of the slices. 
 
 
  TO BRAISE A FILLET OF
BEEF. Put the larded fillet into a 
 braising-pan or  stew-pan;  put in
trimmings of  pork,   onions 
(with some  cloves  stuck in), 
 carrots,  a little  celery  (all
cut in thick slices), and a bunch of  parsley.  
 Salt  the  meat  slightly. Pour
in  stock and  white wine,  so
that it may reach to half the height of the  beef.  If a
 braising-pan  is used, cover the 
 meat  with a well-buttered paper, as in that case live
coals are put on top of the pan. If you use a 
 stew-pan, simply cover it as tight as possible. Let it
simmer, replenishing it, when necessary, with more boiling 
 stock.  It will require an hour or and hour and a half
to cook. When done, drain it; a professional cook would glaze it. Put it into
the oven a moment to dry the larding. Pass the 
 cooking-stock  through a sieve; skim off the fat; add
some  tomato sauce;  let it boil until it is reduced to
the degree requisite. Serve the  fillet  whole, or
carved in slices ready to serve. Generally only the middle part of the fillet
is used, as the whole fillet it quite large--weighing from eight to ten
pounds. 
 
 
  TO TRIM WITH VEGETABLES ( &#224; la Jardini&#232;re ). Every kind of
vegetable is used, such as  potatoes,  
 carrots,   turnips,  
 beets,  small  onions,  
 cauliflower blossoms,  
 asparagus-heads,   French
beans,   pease,  etc. The larger vegetables
are cut into little fancy shapes with a 
 vegetable-cutter or a  fluted
knife,  or with a little plain knife, into little balls, olives,
squares, diamonds, or into any form to suit the taste. Each kind of vegetable
be boiled separately in  salted water  or 
 stock.  The   Slices of larded beef served on a
large oval platter, surrounded with vegetable
garnishes.  vegetables are piled into little groups,
each pile being of one kind of vegetable. 
 
 
  FILLET OF BEEF CUT INTO SLICES
OR SCOLLOPS. This is a good way of managing the 
 beef  that is left from the roast or baked 
 fillet of beef  to be served the second day. Cut the
fillet, after reheating it in the oven, into slices about three-fourths of an
inch thick, and two inches wide. Form a circle in a dish lapping each of these
scollops partly over the other. Fill the centre with a  tomato
sauce,  or  potatoes 
 &#224; la Parisienne,   or 
 mushrooms,  or with any of the small vegetables, such
as  pease,   beans,  little balls
of  carrots,   potatoes,  etc.,
in different little piles; or with  truffles  (they can
be procured canned) sliced, with  Madeira sauce;  or
with  mushrooms  and 
 truffles mixed, with  Madeira
sauce.  
 
 
  BEEFSTEAK. The 
 porter-house and tenderloin steaks  are best. Of
course, there is great difference in the different cuts of these 
 steaks.  For a cheap  steak,  a
good cut of what it called  chuck-steak  is best. It has
more flavor and juice, and is more tender than the 
 round-steak,  costing the same price. 
 Have the choice  steaks  cut half an inch thick at
least; they are even better three-quarters of an inch thick. Grease the 
 gridiron  well with  pork or
beef-suet.  Have it quite hot. Put on the 
 steak  over a hot, clear fire; cover it with a 
 baking-pan.  In a moment, when the 
 steak  is colored, turn it over. Watch it constantly,
turning it whenever it gets a little brown. Do not stick the fork into the
middle of the  steak,  only into the sides,
  where it will do least harm by letting out the
juice. It should be quite rare or pink in the centre, though not 
 raw.  When cooked enough, put it on a hot platter;
sprinkle over plenty of  salt  and 
 pepper --mind not to put on the 
 salt  and  pepper  before the 
 steak  is cooked; then spread over the top some sweet,
fresh  butter.  Set the platter in the oven a few
moments, to let the  butter  soak a little in the 
 steak;  then serve it immediately. Do not use too much 
 butter;  there should be none at all, or at least only
a few stray drops, in the bottom of the platter. There should be no gravy. The
juice of a properly cooked  steak  is supposed to be in
the inside of the  steak,  and not swimming in the
dish. 
 A  steak  is much improved by a simple addition,
called by professional cooks 
 &#224; la ma&#238;tre d'h&#244;tel.  
 When the  steak  is cooked, it is placed on the hot
platter. First, then,  salt  and 
 pepper  are sprinkled over; then comes a sprinkling of
very finely chopped  parsley;  then some drops of 
 lemon-juice;  lastly, small pieces of 
 butter  are carefully spread over. Place the 
 steak  into the oven for a few moments until the 
 butter  is well melted and soaked into the 
 steak.  
 For extra-company breakfasts, only the fillets, 
 i.e.,  the tender parts of the 
 porter-house or tenderloin steaks,  are used. They are
cut into little even shapes, round or oval, one for each plate. They are
cooked, then served in a hot dish, surrounded with  Saratoga
potatoes,  or  fried potatoes  in any form,
or with  water-cresses,  or with 
 mushrooms,  or  stuffed
tomatoes,  or  green pease,  etc. 
 
 
  CORNED BEEF. A good
piece of  beef  well corned, then well boiled, is a most
excellent dish. 
 Put it into the pot with enough  cold water  to just
cover it. When it comes to a boil, set it on the back of the range, so that it
will boil moderately. Too fast boiling renders 
 meat tough, yet the  water 
should never be allowed to cease boiling until the 
 meat  is done; skim often. Let it boil at least four or
five hours, according to its size. It must be thoroughly done. In England,
where this dish is an especial favorite,  carrots  are
always boiled and served with the  beef.  The 
 carrot   flavor improves
the  meat,  and the  meat 
improves the  carrot.   A piece
of corned beef served on a round platter and garnished with
vegetables.  Do not put the 
 carrots  into the pot, however, until there is only
time for them to become thoroughly cooked before serving (about three-quarters
of an hour). Serve the  carrots  around the 
 beef.  
  In America,  cabbage  is oftener boiled
with  corned beef.  This is very nice also. If 
 cabbage  is used, add at the same time one or two
little  red peppers.  When about to serve, press out all
the  water  from the 
 cabbage, adding little pieces of 
 butter.  Serve the  meat  placed
in the centre of the  cabbage.   
 Little  pickles  are a pretty garnish for 
 corned beef,  with or without the vegetables. 
 
 
  CORNED BEEF TO SERVE COLD  ( Mrs. Gratz Brown ). 
 If it is too salt, soak it for an hour in  cold
water,  then put it over the fire, covered with fresh 
 cold water,  four or five 
 cloves  (for about six pounds of 
 beef ), and three table-spoonfuls of 
 molasses.  Boil it slowly. In an hour change the 
 water,  adding five more 
 cloves  and three more table-spoonfuls of 
 molasses.  In two hours more, press the 
 beef,  after removing the bones, into a basin rather
small for it; then, turning it over, place a  flat-iron on
top. When entirely cold, the  beef  is to be sliced for
lunch or tea. 
 
 
  BEEFSTEAK STEWED. Never
use a choice  steak  for a stew. Stewing is only a good
way of cooking an inferior  steak.  The  meat
from a soup-bone  would make a very good stew. 
 Put ripe  tomatoes  (peeled and cut) into a 
 stew-pan;  sprinkle over 
 pepper and  salt.  Let them cook
a little to make some juice; put in the pieces of 
 beef,  some little pieces of 
 butter  mixed with  flour,  two
or three  cloves,  and no 
 water.  Let it stew until the 
 meat  is quite done. Then press the 
 tomatoes  through a sieve. Serve all on the same
dish. 
  
 
  BEEFSTEAK
ROLLED. Procure a  round steak,  spread over it
a layer of almost any kind of  force-meat.  An ordinary 
 bread, onion, thyme, or parsley dressing,  used to
stuff turkeys, is very good. Begin, then, at one end of the 
 steak,  and roll it carefully; tie the roll to keep it
in shape. Bake it in the oven as you would a turkey, basting very often. Make a
 gravy  of the  drippings, adding
 water,   flour,  and a little 
 butter  mixed; season with 
 pepper  and  salt,  strain, skim
off the fat, and pour it around the  meat  when served.
Slice it neatly off the end when carving. 
 
 
  BEEF ROLL ( Cannelon de B&#x0153;uf ). Chop two pounds of 
 lean beef  very fine; chop and pound in a 
 mortar  half a pound of  fat
bacon,  and mix it with the  beef.  Season
it with  pepper  and  salt  (it
will not require much  salt ), a small 
 nutmeg,  the grated  rind of a
lemon,  the  juice  of a quarter of it, a
heaping table-spoonful of  parsley  minced fine; or it
can be seasoned with an additional table-spoonful of 
 onion;  or, if no  onion  or 
 parsley  is at hand, with  summer
savory   An illustration of a beef
roll.  and  thyme.  Bind all
these together with two  eggs.  Form them into a roll;
surround the roll with buttered paper, which tie securely around it. Then cover
it with a  paste  made of 
 flour and  water.  Bake two
hours. Remove the paper and crust. Serve it hot, with 
 tomato-sauce  or  brown gravy. 
This may be made with  raw or under-dressed meat.  If
the  meat  is not raw, but under-dressed, surround the
roll with  pie-crust.  Bake, and serve with 
 tomato-sauce,  or any of the  brown
sauces,  poured in the bottom of the dish.  Potato 
 croquettes   may be served around it. 
   WHAT TO DO WITH COLD
COOKED BEEF. 
 There is a good-sized book written on this subject. When there are about two
hundred ways of utilizing cold cooked  beef, one
should not regard it contemptuously. I studied this treatise, and practiced
from it, but soon considered the few old ways the best, after all. 
 Croquettes  are very good, and there are
beef-sausages, or cakes, seasoned in different ways; beef rolls, meat pies, and
mince-pies, made from a few scraps of cold cooked beef, are all exceedingly
nice when properly made.  
 
  BEEF
HASH. Notwithstanding this distinguished dish is so much abused, I
particularly like it; not swimming hash, nor onion hash, nor Southern or
Western hash, nor yet hash half cooked, but New York hash. I know a New York
family who set a most expensive and elaborate table, which table is especially
noted for its good hash. Large joints are purchased with special reference to
this dish.  Cold corned beef  is generally considered
best. The hash to which I have referred, however, is generally made of 
 cold roast beef.  
 Chop the cold cooked  meat  rather fine; use half as
much  meat  as of boiled 
 potatoes  (chopped when cold). Put a little 
 boiling water  and  butter  into
an iron saucepan; when it boils again, put in the 
 meat and  potatoes  well salted
and peppered. Let it cook well, stirring it occasionally--not enough to make a 
 Pur&#233;e  or mush of it. It is not done before
there is a coating at the bottom of the saucepan, from which the hash will free
itself without sticking. The hash must not be at all watery, nor yet too dry,
but so that it will stand quite firm on well-trimmed and buttered slices of 
 toast,  and to be thus served on a platter. 
 Voil&#224;!  
   Chicken or turkey hash  should be made in the
same way.  
 
 
  MEAT PIE  ( French Cook ). 
 Cut  cold cooked meat  into quite small dice; add 
 pepper,   salt,  a little 
 nutmeg,  and two or three sprigs of chopped 
 parsley;  also a little 
 thyme and a piece of  bay-leaf, 
if you have them, but the two latter  herbs  may be
omitted. Put a little  butter  into a saucepan, and when
hot throw in a table-spoonful of  flour,  which brown
carefully; pour in then several table-spoonfuls of  hot
water,  or, better,  stock;  mix well; then
introduce  the  meat dice; 
stir all well over the fire, cooking it thoroughly. Just before taking it up,
mix in one or two  eggs.  It should be quite moist, yet
consistent. Put a thin  pie-crust  into a 
 pudding-dish.  Fill in a few table-spoonfuls of the
mixture; then lay on it a thin strip of  bacon; continue
these layers until the dish is filled. Now fit a piece of crust over the top;
turn the edges in a fancy manner, and make a cut in the centre. Take a strip of
 pie-paste,  form it into a tie or knot, wet the bottom,
and place it over the cut in the centre of the pie, so as not to obstruct the
opening. 
 The proper way to make a  meat  pie is with a 
 pie-mold  (see page 58). Butter the mold, press the crust
neatly around in the inside and bottom, and continue, as explained for the 
 pudding-dish.  When baked, the wire holding the sides of
the mold is drawn out, and the mold removed from the pie.  This 
  pie   can
be made with  veal  or  lamb,  in
the same manner.  
 
 
  MEAT RISSOLES. For 
 rissoles,   cold beef,  
 chicken,   veal,  
 tongue,  or  lamb  may be used,
separately or mixed. The  meat  should not be chopped,
but cut into quite small dice. It is well to add to it a slight flavoring of
chopped  pork,  and a little finely chopped 
 parsley.  As the  meat  can be
prepared in different ways, the addition of a superfluous 
 mushroom  or two, cut into dice, would not be
amiss. 
 Put a small piece of  butter,  size of a pigeon's
egg, into a saucepan, and when it begins to boil add a heaping tea-spoonful of 
 flour;  stir for a minute to cook the 
 flour,  then add three or four table-spoonfuls of 
 boiling water,  or, what is much better, 
 stock,   gravy,  or 
 brown or white sauce  if you happen to have it; when
well mixed, add about two cupfuls of the  meat
dice, heat well, and just before taking from the fire stir in an 
 egg.  
 The  scraps of puff-paste  are generally preferred,
yet any kind of  pie-paste  may be used for 
 rissoles.  Roll the 
 paste quite thin (one-sixth of an inch); wet it about
three inches from the edge, and place upon it little balls (a generous
tea-spoonful in each one) of the prepared  meat,  at
distances of four inches  apart; now lap over the
edge of the  paste,  quite covering the balls of 
 meat;  press the side of the hand between each one,
and, with the edge of a  tumbler  or 
 muffin-ring,  press the 
 paste close to the  meat;  with
a  biscuit-cutter  (scolloped one prettier) cut out each
enveloped ball of  meat  into half circles. Now cut off
the rough edges of the remaining  paste,  and proceed to
make other rows of the 
 rissoles  in the same manner. With a brush wet all
the tops with the  yolk of an egg.  Bake the 
 rissoles  in a hot oven, and serve them hot on a
folded napkin. If they get cold, they may be reheated just before serving. 
 
 
  BEEF OR ANY COLD-MEAT
SAUSAGES. Chop  cold cooked beef  very fine;
add a fifth as much  pork,  also chopped fine; 
 pepper,   salt,  a little 
 sage,  or any  herbs  preferred,
 lemon-juice,  and a few sprinkles of 
 flour;  mix all together with an 
 egg,  or  eggs;  form into
little balls, fry in  butter  or 
 lard  in a   saut&#233;  pan.  These sausages are good for
breakfast served around a centre of 
 apple-sauce. Or, 
 
 
  FOR RICE AND MEAT
CAKES, make as in last receipt, adding a very little 
 butter.  Stir in a quarter or half of its quantity of
boiled  rice;  or, on another occasion, 
 bread-crumbs  may be substituted for 
 rice.  
 
 
  BEEF CROQUETTES. There
is no more satisfactory manner of using cold cooked  A
stack of cylindrical croquettes served on a round platter and garnished with
leafy vegetables.   beef than
for 
 croquettes,  which may be served with 
 tomato or any of the brown sauces,  or may be served
without  sauce  at all, as is generally the case. They
are made in the same manner as is described for chicken 
 croquettes  (see page 175), merely substituting the
same amount of  beef  for the chicken, and of 
 rice  for the brains. 
  
 
   A CHEAP ARRANGEMENT.  Purchase
two  soup bones  (twenty cents). Boil them four or five
hours with a few  vegetables  (as described for stock,
see page 79). The  stock  will make two or three soups.
Cut up the  meat  for 
 croquettes.  Of course the 
 croquettes  are better made with the best of 
 meat,  yet may be excellent when made of the 
 soup meat.  
 
 
  MINCE-PIES ( made from Remnants of Cold Beef ). A good
disposition in winter of  cold roast beef  is to make
with it two or three mince-pies, as by the following receipt: One cupful of
chopped  meat  (quarter of it 
 fat ), two cupfuls of 
 apple, one tea-spoonful of 
 salt,  one table-spoonful of ground
 allspice,  half a table-spoonful of ground 
 cinnamon,  half a table-spoonful of ground 
 cloves,  one cupful of 
 sugar, half a cupful of 
 raisins,  half a cupful of 
 currants,  one cupful of 
 cider;  or, if one has no 
 cider,  use the same amount of 
 cider-vinegar  and 
 water mixed--say half of each. 
 
 
  A COMMON POT-PIE OF VEAL, BEEF,
OR CHICKEN. Cut the  meat  into pieces, and put
them into enough  boiling water  to cover them well; add

also two or three strips of  pork.  Cover the pot
closely. Boil an hour, then season with  pepper  and 
 salt  to taste, and a little piece of 
 butter.  
 Just before taking out the ingredients of the pot to send to table, put into
it, when the  water  is boiling, separate spoonfuls of
batter made with two  eggs  well beaten, two and a half
or three cupfuls of  buttermilk,  one tea-spoonful of 
 soda,  and sufficient 
 flour. The batter should be made just before it is
cooked. It takes about three or four minutes to cook it, the 
 water  not to be allowed to stop boiling. The dish
should then be served immediately, or the dumplings will become heavy. 
 
 
  CALF'S HEART. If people
generally knew how nice a  calf's heart  is, if properly
cooked, the butchers would never charge so little as ten cents fo it. In
France, the  calf's heart  and kidneys are
  considered great delicacies. In America they are
often thrown away. 
 Merely wash off the blood. One could, by soaking, extract all the flavor
from the  heart.  Stuff it with a  veal
force-meat stuffing,  or a common 
 stuffing,  often used for turkeys, of 
 bread-crumbs,   onion,  a little
 thyme  or  sage,  
 egg,  
 pepper, and  An illustration
of a calf's heart served on a round platter.  
 salt.  Tie a buttered paper over the mouth of the 
 heart  to keep the stuffing  in
place. Put it into a small  baking-pan  with a little 
 hot water,   pepper,  and 
 salt.  Bake nearly two hours, basting it very
frequently. When done, thicken the  gravy  with 
 flour;  strain, skim, and season it, and pour it on the
dish around the  heart.  Garnish the plate with 
 onions,  first boiled until nearly done, then seasoned
with  pepper,   salt,  and a
little  butter,  and browned in the oven. 
 
 
  TONGUE, WITH MUSTARD PICKLE
SAUCE. Cut boiled  tongue  into slices; fry
them in a little hot  butter,  with a sprinkle of minced
 onion  thrown in. Then, for the 
 sauce,  take out the slices of 
 tongue;  put in a tea-spoonful of 
 flour,  and when brown, a tea-cupful of  hot
water.  When done, strain, and season with 
 salt  and  pepper;  add a
table-spoonful of chopped  pickles  (
 piccalilli  is best); however, common 
 cucumber pickles  may be used, with a little 
 mustard  added; or the 
 sauce may be flavored with 
 capers,  or with both  capers 
and  pickles.  Let the slices of 
 tongue  soak in the  sauce 
until ready to serve, then arrange the slices of tongue 
on a platter, one lapped over the other, and pour over the 
 sauce.  A  beef tongue  may be
braised, and served with  spinach  or 
 sauce Tartare,  as described for 
 sheep's tongues.  
 
 
  TONGUE SLICES, WITH SPINACH AND
SAUCE TARTARE. Braise the  tongue  as described
for sheep's tongues (see page  158): arrange a
circle of the slices around a platter, and on each slices smooth a little hill
(enough for one person) of  spinach  prepared as
described in the same receipt for "sheep's tongues with spinach." Put either a
spoonful of  sauce Tartare  or a slice of 
 lemon  into or on the top of each 
 spinach  mold. This makes a nice lunch or dinner
dish. 
    VEAL. 
 THE best pieces of veal are the loin and the fillet. A variety of dishes can
be made with veal cutlets and their different accompaniments. Veal is always
better cooked with pork or ham. Professional cooks generally trim and lard
their veal cutlets, serving them with tomato sauce, pease, beans, breakfast
bacon, lemon-slices, cucumbers, etc. For a cheap dish, one of the most
satisfactory is a knuckle of veal made into a ragout, or pot-pie. Any of the
inferior cuts may be made into a 
 blanquette.  
 A 
 fricandeau  of veal is perhaps considered the most
distinguished veal dish. I would always advise the trimming of veal cutlets. It
gives little trouble, but the appearance is much improved, and the trimmings
should be thrown into the  stock-pot.  Veal should always
be thoroughly cooked. 
 
  ROAST OF VEAL--THE
FILLET. Take out the bone of the joint; make a deep incision between
the fillet and the flap; then fill it with 
 stuffing made as follows: Two cupfuls of 
 bread-crumbs,  half a cupful of chopped 
 pork,  half a  lemon-peel 
grated, a little  sauce,  
 thyme,   summer savory,  or any 
 herbs to taste; or it may be filled with a 
 veal stuffing (see page 167). Bind the 
 veal  into a round form, fasten it with 
 skewers  and twine, sprinkle over 
 pepper  and  salt,  and cover it
with buttered paper. Be careful not to put the  meat too
near the fire at first. Baste well and often. Just before it is done, remove
the paper, sprinkle over a little  flour,  and rub over
it a little  butter.  This will give a frothy appearance
  to the surface of the 
 meat.  When done, put the pan of 
 gravy  on the fire; add a little 
 flour,  some  boiling
water, and, when cooked, some  lemon-juice. 
Strain it, remove the grease, and pour it around the roast. Fry some pieces of 
 ham  cut in diamond shape; place these in a circle
around the roast, each piece alternated with a slice of 
 lemon.  
 
 
  A FRICANDEAU OF
VEAL. What is called a 
 fricandeau  of  veal  is
simply a cushion of  veal  trimmed into shape, larded,
and braised. Cut a thick slice (three or four pounds) from a  fillet
of veal,  trim it around as in cut for "blind hare" (see page 150),
and lard it on top. Put some pieces of  pork  into a 
 braising-kettle,  or saucepan, if you have no 
 braising-kettle;  also slices of 
 carrot,  an  onion  with 
 cloves  stuck in, a stick of 
 celery,  and some  parsley.  Put
in the  meat,  sprinkle over 
 pepper  and  salt,  and cover it
with well-buttered paper. Now fill the pan with boiling 
 stock,  or  water  enough to
just cover the  meat.  Put on a tight lid. If it is a 
 braising-pan,  set it upon the fire, with live 
 coals  on top. If a common saucepan, cover it, and put
it into a hot oven. 
 It will take about two hours, or two hours and a half, to cook it. A
professional cook would boil down the  stock  in which
the 
 fricandeau  was cooked until reduced to a glaze, then
with a brush would glaze all the top of the 
 meat, placing it in the oven a moment to dry. However,
it tastes as well without this extra trouble. 
 The best  sauce  for a 
 fricandeau  is 
 tomato-sauce. It is often garnished with 
 green pease,   spinach,  or 
 sorrel;  or a little  wine (Madeira, port,
or sherry)  and  roux  (see
page 51) may be added to the  braising-stock  for a 
 gravy. The  gravy  should be
strained, of course. 
 
 
  VEAL CUTLETS,
BROILED. The  rib cutlets  should always be
neatly trimmed, the bone scraped at the end, so that it will look smooth and
white. Broil them on a moderate fire, basting them occasionally with 
 butter,  and turning them often. Dish them in a circle
with  tomato-sauce.  
  
 
  VEAL CUTLETS, SAUT&#233;D AND
FRIED. These are  cutlets cut from the
round, although any  veal cutlets  may be
cooked in the same way. Cut them into equal-sized pieces, beat them a little
with a knife to get them into shape; season,  egg,  and 
 bread-crumb  them. Now, fry in a   saut&#233;  pan,  or rather 
 saut&#233;  some thin slices of 
 ham  in a little hot  lard,  and
when done take them out on a hot dish; fry slowly the cutlets in the same 
 fat,  and when done pour out some of the 
 fat,  if there is more than a tea-spoonful; add a
little  flour,  then a little  hot
water,  and, when cooked a few moments, season it well with 
 lemon-juice,  adding  pepper and
 salt  to taste; then strain it. Serve the cutlets in
the centre of a dish, with the  gravy  poured over; and
place alternate slices of the  ham  and 
 lemon  in a circle around them. 
  They are also very good 
 saut&#233;d  in a little 
 lard,  and served with a  cream
gravy  poured over;   or they are nice egged
(with a little chopped  parsley  and 
 onion  mixed with the  egg ),
and bread-crumbed, and fried in hot 
 lard.   
 
 
  VEAL CUTLETS,
BRAISED. Professional cooks usually braise  veal
cutlets.  They lard them (an easy matter) all on the same side, the
flavor of  pork  particularly well suiting 
 veal.  To proceed then: Mince some 
 onions  and  carrots;  put them
in the bottom of a  stew-pan;  put the cutlets on this
layer; cover well with  stock  (add 
 wine  if you choose), and let them cook until
thoroughly done. 
 If you wish to be particular, boil down the 
 stock and glaze them; or make a 
 gravy  of the  stock  with 
 flour,   roux,  
 pepper and  salt,  and strain
it; or serve them with  tomato-sauce;  or make a little
round hill of  mashed potatoes,  and put the cutlets
around; or serve with them, instead,  beans,  
 pease,  or flowerets of 
 cauliflowers.  
 
 
  MUTTON OR VEAL CHOPS ( en
papillote ). Trim the  chops;  broil them
in the usual way over the coals, and when done, place each one in a paper (well
buttered) cut in the form of Fig. 1; pour over each chop a 
 sauce  made as follows: For three cutlets thicken a cupful of strong 
 broth with equal quantities of either cold cooked 
 chicken,   lamb,  or 
 veal,   Two illustrations of a
veal chop. In the first illustration, the chop is placed on one half of an
oblong paper which has been folded down the center. In the second illustration,
the paper has been folded in half to completely cover the chop, then folded in
at the outer edges to seal the chop in.  and 
 mushrooms  (the  mushrooms  are
a great improvement to the dish, yet they may be omitted if more convenient)
with a quarter proportion of cold boiled  ham  added,
and also one or two springs of  parsley,  all chopped
very fine. Pour this hot over the hot cutlets; place a 
 very thin  slice of  fat salt
pork  over each  cutlet;  *  fasten the paper as in Fig. 2, and place them in a hot oven
for about ten minutes. Serve 
 immediately  while the chops are steaming hot. 
  The following note appears at the bottom of page 149 in the
original text. 
 *The addition of the slice of pork is quite
indispensable for veal chops 
 en papillote,  but it is often omitted when the chops
are of mutton. 
 
  BLANQUETTE OF VEAL  ( French Cook ). 
 Cut any kind of  veal  (say two pounds) into pieces;
put it into  boiling water,  with a little bulb of 
 garlic  or slice of  onion,  and
when done throw the  meat  from the  boiling
water  into  cold water,  to whiten it. This
is the rule, but I usually dispense with it. Make a  drawn butter
sauce,  
 i.e.,  put  butter  the size
of an egg into a saucepan, and when it bubbles mix in a table-spoonful of 
 flour,  which cook a minute, without letting it color;
add then two cupfuls of  boiling water  and a little 
 nutmeg.  When the  veal  is
done, drain it from the  water,  and let it simmer
several minutes in the  sauce,  adding at the same time
a sprig of  parsley  chopped fine. When just ready to
serve, place the pieces of  meat  on a hot platter; stir
the  yolks of three 
eggs into the  sauce  without allowing them
to boil; also several drops, or a seasoning, of 
 lemon-juice.  Pour the  sauce 
over the  veal,  and serve. 
 
 
  BLIND HARE  ( Mrs. Charles Parsons ). 
 Ingredients: Three pounds of  minced veal,  three
pounds of  minced beef,  eight 
 eggs  well beaten, three  stale
rolls,  or the same amount of 
 bread-crumbs,   pepper,  
 salt,  two grated  nutmegs,  a
heaping table-spoonful of ground 
 cinnamon.   An illustration of
blind hare served on a round platter and garnished with leafy
vegetables.  Mix all well together. From it into an
oval-shaped loaf, smooth it, and sprinkle  bread or cracker
crumbs  over the top. Bake it in a moderate oven about three hours.
It is to be sliced when cold. 
 
 
  BEWITCHED VEAL  ( Mrs. Judge Embry ). 
 Ingredients: Three pounds of  lean veal,  half a
pound of  fat salt pork,  one 
 nutmeg  grated, one small 
 onion,   butter  the size of an
egg, a little  red pepper,  and 
 salt.  
 Chop all very fine, and mix them together, with three 
 eggs  well beaten, and a tea-cupful of 
 milk;  form it into a small loaf, pressing it very
firmly; cover it with fine  bread-crumbs;  bake two
hours and a half. It is intended to be eaten cold, yet is very good hot. The
slices may be served in a circle around salad. 
 
 
  PLAIN VEAL STEW OR
POT-PIE. Cut the  meat  from a 
 knuckle of veal  into pieces not too small; put them
into a pot with some small pieces of  salt pork,  and
plenty of  pepper  and 
 salt; pour over enough  hot
water  to cover it well, and let it boil until the 
 meat  is 
 thoroughly  done; then, while the 
 water  is still boiling, drop in (by the spoonful) a
batter made with the following ingredients: Two 
 eggs well beaten, two and a half or three cupfuls of 
 buttermilk,  one even tea-spoonful of 
 soda,  and  flour  enough to
make a thick batter. Cover the pot, and as soon as the batter is well cooked,
serve it. By standing, it becomes heavy. 
  
 
  TO COOK LIVER  ( Melanie Lourant ), No. 1. 
 Put a little  lard  into a saucepan, and when hot
throw in half an  onion  minced fine, one or two sprigs
of  parsley,  chopped, and the slices of 
 calf's liver.  Turn the 
 liver several times, allowing it to cook well and
imbibe the taste of the  onion  and 
 parsley.  When cooked, place it at the side of the
fire. In another saucepan make a sauce as follows: Put in a piece of 
 butter  size of a large hickory-nut, and when it
bubbles sprinkle in a heaping tea-spoonful of  flour; 
stir it until it assumes a fine brown color, then pour in a cupful of 
 boiling water,  stirring it well with the 
 egg-whisk;  add  pepper,  
 salt,  a table-spoonful of 
 vinegar,  and a heaping table-spoonful of 
 capers.  The  sauce  is very
nice without the  capers,  but very much improved with
them. Drain out the slices of  liver,  which put into
the  sauce,  and let them remain at the side of the fire
until ready to serve. Chopped  pickle  may be
substituted for the  capers,  and 
 stock  may be used instead of the  boiling
water.  
 
 
  TO COOK LIVER (No.
2). Fry in a   saut&#233; pan  some thin slices of 
 breakfast bacon, and when done put them on a hot dish;
fry then thin slices of  liver  in the same 
 fat,  which have previously been thrown into 
 boiling water  for only a 
 moment,  and then been sprinkled with 
 flour.  When well done on both sides, serve them and
the  bacon  on the same dish, and garnish them with
slices of  lemon.  
 
 
  CALF'S BRAINS. Before
cooking, remove the fibrous membranes around them. Throw them into a pint of 
 cold water,  in which are mixed half a tea-spoonful of 
 salt  and one tea-spoonful of 
 vinegar;  boil the three minutes, then plunge them into
 cold water.  When cold and about to be served, cut them
into scollops; and when seasoned with  pepper  and 
 salt,  egged, and bread-crumbed, 
 saut&#233;  them in a little hot 
 butter.  Serve with 
 tomato-sauce.   Or they may be served with 
 spighetti  (a small 
 macaroni ) cooked with 
 tomato-sauce  (see page 210), and placed around them,
when they are called  brains 
 &#224; la Milanaise.    
     SWEET-BREADS. 
 VEAL sweet-breads are best. They spoil very soon. The moment they come from
market, they should be put into cold water, to soak for about an hour; lard
them, or rather draw a lardoon of pork through the centre of each sweet-bread,
and put them into salted boiling water, or, better, stock, and let them boil
about twenty minutes, or until they are thoroughly done; throw them then into
cold water for only a few moments. They will now be firm and white. Remove
carefully the skin and little pipes, and put them in the coolest place until
ready to cook again. The simplest way to cook them is the best one, as
follows: 
 
  FRIED
SWEET-BREADS. Parboil them as just explained. Just before serving, cut
them in even-sized pieces, sprinkle over  pepper  and 
 salt,   egg  and 
 bread-crumb  them, and fry them in hot 
 lard.  They are often immersed in boiling 
 lard,  yet oftener fried in the   saut&#233; 
pan. If  An illustration of fried
sweetbreads served in a ring around a mound of
peas.   saut&#233;d, 
when done put them on a hot dish, turn out part of the 
 lard  from the   saut&#233;  pan,  leaving about half a
tea-spoonful; pour in a cupful of  milk  thickened with
a little  flour;  let it cook, stirring it constantly,
and season it with  pepper  and 
 salt;  strain, and pour over the 
 sweet-breads.  With  green
pease,  serve without sauce. This is the usual combination at
dinner or breakfast companies, the  pease  in the centre
of the dish, and the  sweet-breads  around (see cut
above). Or they are often served whole with 
 cauliflower  or  asparagus
heads,  when the  cream-sauce  is poured
over both; or they are also nice piled in the centre of a dish, with 
 macaroni  (cooked with  cheese )
placed around them like a nest, and browned a little with a 
 salamander  (see cut on next page), or with a 
 tomato-sauce  in the centre of the dish, and the 
 sweet-breads  around, or with  stuffed
tomatoes  alternating with the 
 sweet-breads  on the dish,
or with  mushrooms  in the centre, or served on a dish
made of boiled  rice,  called  rice 
 casserole   (see page 205), or in little 
 rice  molds called  cassolettes.  To make the latter, boil the 
 rice  well, then work it to
a  An illustration of fried sweetbreads served on a
bed of macaroni.  a smooth paste with a spoon; fill
some little buttered  patty-pans  with the 
 rice,  and when it is quite cold take it out, brush
the cassolettes  with  butter 
on the outside, and color them a little in a hot oven; scoop out the inside,
leaving the rice crust a quarter of an inch thick. Fill the 
 cassolettes  with the 
 sweet-breads  cut into pieces, and pour over each a
spoonful of  cream dressing;  or they may be 
 saut&#233;d  as described, and served with a 
  ma&#238;tre-d'h&#244;tel sauce  poured
over. 
 
 
  SWEET-BREADS &#224; LA
MILANAISE.  Sweet-breads  fried as in preceding
receipt are placed in the centre of a hot platter. Small piped 
 macaroni  broken into two or three inch lengths is
cooked with  tomatoes  as in receipt (see page 210), and
neatly arranged in a circle around them. 
 
 
  SWEET-BREADS LARDED AND
BRAISED ( English Lady ). 
 Trim all the skin and cartilage very carefully from two fine 
 sweet-breads;  lay them in  cold
water  for an hour, and lard them; lay some slices of 
 bacon  in the bottom of a 
 braising-pan,  or any pan with a good cover
( Francatelli  would add also minced 
 onions,   carrots,  
 celery,  and  parsley;  however,
they are quite good enough without); then put in 
 sweet-breads,  with slices of 
 bacon  between the pan and the 
 sweet-breads;  pour over all some 
 stock,  just high enough not to touch the larding,
which must stand up free; let it simmer very gently for half or three-quarters
of an hour. Look at it occasionally to see that the 
 stock  does not waste; add a little if it does. When
done, hold a  salamander  or a hot  kitchen
shovel  over the  sweet-breads  until they
are a pale-yellow color on top. Serve these with 
 tomato-sauce  poured in the centre of the dish. The
whole dish around look moist, the  sweet-breads  nearly
white, and the  larding transparent, standing up
distinct and firm, like glass, white at the bottom, and pale-yellow on top. 
 
 
  BAKED SWEET-BREAD  ( New York Cooking-school ). 
 Put a pair of  sweet-breads  on the fire in one quart
of  cold water,  in which are mixed one tea-spoonful of 
 salt  and one table-spoonful of 
 vinegar.  When the  water boils,
take them off, and throw them into  cold water, leaving
them until they get cold; now lard them with  lardoons 
about one-eighth of an inch square and two inches long. Chop rather fine
one-third of a medium-sized  onion  (one ounce), four or
five slices of  carrot  (one and a half ounces), half a
stalk of  celery,  and one sprig of 
 parsley.  Put in the bottom of a 
 baking-dish   trimmings of
pork; on this place the  sweet-breads,  and
sprinkle the chopped vegetables over the top; bake them twenty minutes in a hot
oven. Cut a slice of  bread  into an oval or any fancy
shape, and fry it in a   saut&#233; 
pan  in a little hot  butter,  coloring it
well; put this  cro&#251;ton  in the
centre of a hot platter, on which place the 
 sweet-breads.  Serve  pease  or 
 tomato-sauce around. 
 
 
  SWEET-BREAD
FRITTERS. Parboil the  sweet-breads  as before
explained, and cut them into slices about half an inch thick; then sprinkle
over them  pepper  and  salt,  a
little grated  nutmeg,  some finely chopped 
 parsley,  and a few drops of 
 lemon-juice;  dip them each into  French
fritter batter  (see page 229); fry them a moment in boiling-hot 
 lard.  Always test the 
 lard before frying by putting in a piece of 
 bread  or a bit of the batter; if it turns yellow
readily, it is hot enough. Drain them well; pile them on a napkin neatly
arranged on a platter; garnish them with fried 
 parsley,  
 i.e.,   parsley  thrown into
the  lard,  and skimmed out almost immediately. 
 
 
  SWEET-BREAD CROQUETTES  ( New York Cooking-school ). 
 After two pairs of  sweet-breads  are blanched
(boiled in  salted water  as described), cut them into
dice; cut also half a box (four ounces) of 
 mushrooms into dice. Make a  roux  by putting one and a half ounces of 
 butter  into a saucepan, and when it bubbles sprinkle
in two ounces of  flour;  mix and cook it well;
  then pour in a gill of strong 
 stock  or  cream;  when this is
also  Eight cylindrical croquettes served on a round
platter.  mixed, add the dice, which stir over the
fire until they are thoroughly heated; take them from the fire, add the beaten 
 yolks of two eggs,  which return to the fire a moment
to set, without allowing to boil. When cool, form into 
 croquettes;  roll them first in 
 cracker-crumbs,  then in 
 egg, then in  cracker-crumbs 
again, and fry them in boiling  lard.  
 The 
 croquettes  may be cone-shaped, with a stick of 
 parsley  or  celery  pressed in
the top for a stem just before serving; or the sweet-bread 
 croquettes  may be made in the same manner as
chicken croquettes  (French cook receipt),
substituting  sweet-breads  for the chickens. They may
be served alone, or with  pease,  or with 
 tomato or Bechamel sauce,  etc. 
 
 
  SKEWER OF
SWEET-BREADS. Parboil the  sweet-breads  as
before described; cut them into slices or scollops about half an inch or more
thick; sprinkle  An illustration of skewered
sweetbreads served in a ring on a round
platter.  them with 
 pepper and  salt,  and 
 egg  and  bread-crumb  them; now
run a little  skewer  (see page 56) through two of these
slices, alternating with two thin; square slices of 
 bacon;  fry in boiling  lard; 
serve a  tomato or cream sauce  in the centre, and
garnish with  parsley.  Serve one skewerful to each
person at table. 
    MUTTON. 
 THE best roasts are the leg, the saddle, and the shoulder of mutton. They
are all roasted according to the regular rules for roasting. In England, mutton
is hung some time before  cooking. There must be
something in the air of England quite different from that of America in
reference to the hanging of meats and game; there, it is to be confessed, the
mutton, after having hung a certain length of time, certainly is more
delicious; here it would be unwholesome, simply not fit to eat. These joints of
which I speak are also good braised. Serve currant-jelly-sauce with the roast,
or garnish it with stuffed baked tomatoes. 
 
  BOILED LEG OF
MUTTON. This should be quite fresh. Put it into 
 well-salted boiling water,  which do not let stop
boiling until the  meat  is thoroughly done. The rule is
to boil it a quarter of an hour for each pound of 
 meat.   Caper-sauce  should be
served with this dish, either in  sauce-boat  or poured
over the  mutton;  garnish with 
 parsley.  
 
 
  MUTTON CUTLETS. Trim
them well, scraping the bones; roll them in a little  melted
butter  or  oil,  season, and broil them; or
they are nice egged, bread-crumbed, and fried. They are especially nice when
broiled, served around a bed of  mashed boiled
potatoes:  the  cutlets  help to season the 
 potatoes,  which in turn
well  A ring of mutton chops served around a bed of
mashed potatoes on a round platter.  suit the 
 meat.   Tomato-sauce  is also a
favorite companion to the cutlets. They may, however, be served with almost any
kind of vegetables, such as  pease  or 
 string-beans,  in the centre of the dish, and the
cutlets arranged in a circle around. 
 
 
  RAGOUTS ( made of pieces of Mutton, Veal, Beef, or
Rabbits ). Cut the upper parts, or the 
 neck,  from a  fore-quarter of
mutton  (or take inferior cuts from any part) into pieces for a
ragout; heat a heaping table-spoonful of  drippings,  or
 lard,  in a saucepan and when hot 
 saut&#233;  in it the pieces of 
 mutton  (say two pounds) until they are almost done;
take them out, put in  a table-spoonful of 
 flour,  brown it, add at first a little cold or 
 lukewarm water,  mix it well, then add a quart of 
 boiling water;  now add also 
 salt,   Cayenne pepper,  two 
 cloves,  the pieces of 
 saut&#233;d   meat,  three
or four  onions  (not large), and six or seven peeled 
 potatoes.  Some prefer to boil the 
 potatoes  a few minutes in other 
 water  first, as the  water  in
which  potatoes  are boiled is considered unwholesome;
cover the  stew-pan  well. When the vegetables are cooked,
take them and the  meat  out, skim off every particle of
fat from the  gravy,  taste to see if it is properly
seasoned, pour it over the ragout, and serve. 
 These ragouts can be made with the  neck,  or any
pieces of  veal,  in the same manner, or with pieces of 
 beef,  in which case 
 carrots might be substituted for the potatoes. A ragout
of  rabbits  is most excellent made in the same way,
adding a glassful of  red wine  when it is almost
done. 
 In buying a fore quarter of  mutton,  there are
enough trimmings for a good ragout, with a shapely roast besides. 
 
 
  ANOTHER RAGOUT ( of Pieces of Mutton, Veal, Beef, etc. ). Make rich
 pie-paste  about the size of an egg (for four persons);
roll it a quarter of an inch thick; cut it into diamonds, say an inch long and
half an inch broad. Bake them, and put them aside until five minutes before
serving the ragout. Take  mutton,  
 veal,   beef,  or almost any
kind of  meat.  Any cheap cut of 
 meat  will make a good ragout, and choice cuts had
better to be cooked in other ways. In this instance, I will say cut two pounds
from the side of  mutton.  Put a table-spoonful of 
 lard  or  drippings  into a
saucepan, and when hot 
 saut&#233;  in it the pieces of 
 mutton;  when half done, place them in a kettle. Add a
heaping table-spoonful of  flour  to the 
 drippings  in the saucepan; stir it constantly several
minutes to brown, then add gradually a pint of  hot
water;  now pour this over the  meat  in the
kettle, adding three small  onions,  two sprigs of 
 parsley,  three  cloves,  and a
clove or bulb of  garlic,  if you have it; 
 pepper  and  salt.  Cover it
closely, and let it simmer slowly for an hour, occasionally turning the kettle
to one side to skim off all the  fat.  Five minutes
before serving, add the diamonds of crust.  
 At the moment of serving, take out the  meat,  crust,
and three  onions,  and arrange them on a hot platter.
Pass the  gravy  through a sieve, and skim off every
remaining particle of fat; taste to see if it is properly seasoned with 
 pepper  and  salt,  and pour it
over the  meat.  
 
 
  SHEEP'S TONGUES, WITH SPINACH. Braise a
number of  sheep's-tongues  with  salt
pork,   parsley,  
 onion,  some whole  peppers,  a
tea-spoonful of  sugar,  and enough 
 stock  to cover them. Let them simmer one and a half
hours.  An illustration of sheep's tongues served in a
ring around a mold of spinach.  Serve with 
 spinach  in the centre of the dish, and seasoned with 
 lemon-juice,  a little of the  tongue
stock,  some  Cayenne pepper,  
 salt,  and  butter.  Serve the 
 tongues  around it, and diamonds or fancy cuts of 
 fried bread  ( cro&#251;tons ) around the outside circle. 
 
 
  SHEEP'S TONGUES &#224; LA
MAYONNAISE. Boil half a dozen  sheep's
tongues with one or two slices of  bacon, 
one  carrot,  one  onion,  two 
 cloves,  two or three sprigs of 
 parsley,   salt  and 
 pepper  (some add two table-spoonfuls of 
 sherry  or  port wine,  but this
may be omitted), and enough  boiling water  (or, better,
 stock ) to cover them. Let them simmer about one and a
half hours, replenishing the  boiling water  or the 
 stock  when necessary. When thoroughly done, skin and
trim them neatly; lay them between two plates, to flatten them. A professional
cook would glaze them with the  stock  boiled down in
which they were cooked; however, this is only for the sake of appearance.
Arrange them in a circle around a dish, with a   Mayonnaise  sauce  poured in the centre. 
 
 
  SHEEP'S TONGUES, WITH SAUCE
TARTARE. Boil the  tongues  in 
 salted water  into which has been squeezed the 
 juice of half a lemon  (for six 
 tongues ). Serve with  sauce
Tartare  (see page 128). 
     LAMB. 
 THE best roasts are the fore and hind quarters. 
 
  ROAST LEG OF
LAMB. Professional cooks serve a roast or baked  hind
quarter of lamb  rather rare, or well done on the outside and pink
within. It is really better, although it must be served steaming hot. Serve a 
 caper, pickle, or mint sauce  with it. If it is neatly
carved though the centre, it will present a good appearance served again the
next day, by stuffing the cut-out space with boiled  mashed
potatoes,  smoothing it evenly around, and placing it long enough
in the oven to become thoroughly hot. 
 
 
  ROAST FORE QUARTER OF
LAMB. This may or may not be partly stuffed, a common  veal
stuffing  answering the purpose very well. It should be well
seasoned with  pepper  and 
 salt,  thoroughly cooked, and often basted. 
 
 
  LAMB CHOPS. This is a
favorite dinner-company dish, generally arranged in a circle around 
 green pease.  They should be neatly trimmed, the bones
scraped, then rolled in a little  melted butter,  and
carefully broiled. When done, rub more  butter  over
them, and season them with  pepper  and 
 salt.  Slip little paper ruffles (see page 61) over the
ends of the bones. They may be served with a centre  A
round platter containing lamb chops served in a ring around a bed of
vegetables.  of almost any kind of vegetable, such
as a smooth hemisphere of  mashed potatoes  or 
 spinach,  or with  beans,  
 cauliflowers  or  stuffed baked
tomatoes,  or with a  tomato-sauce.  
 
 
  SADDLE OF LAMB OR
MUTTON. This is considered a delicate roast. Roast it in the usual
manner. Serve  caper, mint, or any of the sauces  or 
 vegetables  that are used with other dishes of 
 lamb  or  mutton.  
  
 
  LAMB CROQUETTES are
made the same as chicken 
 croquettes,  only substituting  cold
lamb  for the chicken. Many prefer the 
 lamb  to the chicken 
 croquette,  even for dinner or lunch parties. 
 
 
  SHEEP'S KIDNEYS. The
best manner of cooking is to 
 saut&#233;  them. They must be perfectly fresh
(they spoil soon), 
 saut&#233;d  on a quick fire, never allowed to boil
in the  sauce  (this would spoil the gravy), and served
with a little  wine  in the 
 sauce.  
 First cut them into slices; season, and 
 saut&#233;  them in a little hot 
 suet,   clarified drippings,  or
 butter.  When done, put them on a hot plate. Now take a
second  stew-pan,  put in a piece of 
 butter  the size of a large hickory-nut; when it is
hot, throw in a tea-spoonful of minced  onion,  two
sprigs of  parsley,  minced also, and a tea-spoonful of 
 flour;  when they become red, pour in one and a half
cupfuls of  hot water  or 
 stock.  Let it simmer a few moments, then season with 
 pepper  and  salt,  and strain
it; now add a table-spoonful of  sherry  or 
 port wine,  and the pieces of 
 kidney.  Let the  kidney  remain
a few moments in the  sauce  without boiling, and serve.
Professional cooks generally add minced  mushrooms;  but
the dish is quite good enough without them. 
    PORK. 
 A LITTLE salted pork or bacon should always be kept in the house. I confess
to having a decided prejudice against this meat, considering it unwholesome and
dangerous, especially in cities, unless used in the smallest quantities. Yet
pork makes a delicious flavoring for cooking other meats, and thin, small
slices of breakfast bacon are a relishing garnish for beefsteak, veal, cutlets,
liver, etc. In the country, perhaps, there is less cause for doubt about it
use, where the animal is raised with corn, and where much outdoor life will
permit the taking of stronger food.  
 
  TO CURE BACON. For
every three hundred pounds of  pork  use fourteen pounds
of  common salt,  and one pound each of 
 brown sugar  and  saltpetre. Rub
them into the  meat,  and let it lie for three weeks,
rubbing and turning it occasionally. Then wipe dry, rub again with dry 
 fine salt,  wrap it in a thick cloth (canvas) or paper,
and hang it in a cool, dry place. 
 
 
  ROAST LITTLE PIG. I 
 trust  entirely to the following receipt. Any one who
fancies can cook a little  pig,  not I. 
 The  pig  should be three weeks old, well cleaned,
and stuffed with a dressing of this proportion: Two large 
 onions,  four times the quantity of 
 bread-crumbs,  three tea-spoonfuls of chopped 
 sage,  two ounces of 
 butter, half a salt-spoonful of 
 pepper,  one salt-spoonful of 
 salt,  and one  egg.  Or it may
be filled with a  veal force-meat stuffing,  if
preferred; or, it may be stuffed with hot  mashed
potatoes.  Sew it together with a strong thread, trussing its fore
legs forward and its hind legs backward. Rub the 
 pig with  butter,  
 flour,   pepper,  and 
 salt.  Roast it at first before a very slow fire, as it
should be thoroughly done; or, if it is baked, the oven should not be too hot
at first. Baste it very often. When done (in about three hours), place a 
 cob  or a  potato  in the mouth,
having put something in at first to keep it open. Serve it with 
 apple-sauce  or 
 tomato-sauce.  
 
 
  ROAST PORK. The
roasting pieces are the  spare rib,  the 
 leg,  the  loin,  the 
 saddle,  the  fillet,  and the 
 shoulder.  They may be stuffed with a common
well-seasoned  sage stuffing.  The skin, if left on,
should be cut in lines forming little squares; if the 
 skin  is taken off, sprinkle a little pounded 
 sage  over all, and put over it a buttered paper. Be
careful, in roasting  pork,  to put the 
 meat  far enough from the fire at first, as it must be
thoroughly done. The rule for the time of roasting 
 pork  is twenty minutes for each pound. Baste it at
first with  butter,  and afterward with its own 
 drippings.  A  roast loin of
pork  is very  nice (allowing it to
remain well sprinkled with  salt  an hour or two before
roasting) served with  cabbage  cooked with a little 
 vinegar,  or served with 
 sauer-krout.  
 
 
  BROILED PORK CUTLETS  ( Dubois ). 
 Take a fresh  neck of pork  (free from fat); shorten
the bones of the ribs, and remove those of the chine; cut six cutlets off each 
 neck,  taking them a little obliquely; trim them,
season, and roll them in  melted butter  and 
 bread-crumbs.  Broil them. Pour into a 
 stew-pan  four or five table-spoonfuls of 
 vinegar,  and double its volume of 
 stock  or  gravy,  let it boil,
and thicken it with a little  flour.  Pass it through a
sieve, and add to it  pepper  and some spoonfuls of
chopped  pickles.  Dish the cutlets in a circle, and
pour over them the  sauce;  or  pork
cutlets  may be fried or 
 saut&#233;d  in a  stew-pan, 
in a little hot  lard,  and served with the same 
 sauce.  
 
 
  PORK AND BEANS. Soak a
quart of  beans  overnight. The next day boil them with
a sliced  onion,  one large 
 onion  to a quart of 
 beans (they will not taste of the 
 onion ), and when they are almost done, put them into a
 baking-dish,  taking out the
 onions.  Almost bury in the centre of the 
 beans  a quarter of a pound of  salt
pork;  pour in some of the  water  in which
the  beans  were boiled, and bake about an hour. 
  Another way is to omit the  onions,  and
after parboiling the  beans  put them into the 
 bake-pan  with one large spoonful of 
 molasses  and a quarter of a pound of 
 pork,  and bake them two hours.  
 
 
  BOSTON BAKED BEANS. Put
one and one-half pints of medium-sized  navy beans  into
a quart  bean-pot;  fill it with 
 water,  and let it stand overnight. In the morning,
pour off the  water,  and cover the 
 beans  with fresh  water  in
which is mixed one table-spoonful of  molasses.  Put a
quarter of a pound of  pickled pork  in the centre,
leaving a quarter of an inch of  pork  above the 
 beans.  Bake them eight hours with a steady fire, and,
without stirring the  beans,  add a cupful of 
 hot water  every hour but the last two. Earthen
  pots with narrow mouths are made expressly for
baking  beans.  Cooking them in this manner, without
first boiling them, renders each  bean  perfectly whole
and at the same time thoroughly cooked. When done, place the 
 pork  in the centre of a platter, with the 
 beans  around it. 
 
 
  ENTR&#233;E OF APPLES AND
PORK. Cut  sour apples  (
 pippins ) into slices without skinning them; fry or 
 saut&#233;  them with small strips of 
 pork.  Serve both, tastefully arranged, on the same
dish. 
 
 
  SAUSAGES  ( Warne ). 
 "Two pounds and a half of  pork,  
 fat  and lean mixed (three times as much lean as 
 fat ), one ounce of  fine
salt, a quarter of a pound of  pepper,  two
tea-spoonfuls of powdered  sage,  a quarter of a
tea-spoonful of  allspice,  and a quarter of a
tea-spoonful of  cloves.  Chop the 
 meat  as fine as possible: there are machines for the
purpose. Mix the  seasoning  well through the whole;
pack the  sausage-meat  down hard in stone jars, which
should be kept in a cool place, well covered. When wanted for use, form them
into little cakes, dip them in beaten  egg,  then in 
 wheat flour,  and fry them in hot 
 lard. " 
 Always serve  apple-sauce  with pork sausages. Two
dishes never suited better. For breakfast, it would be well to have a centre of
 apple-sauce  on a platter, with 
 sausages  around, or 
 vice vers&#226;.  They are a fine garnish for a
roast turkey. 
 It is said that sausages will keep forever, by frying them and putting them
in little jars, with a cover of hot lard. 
 
 
  TO CURE HAMS  ( Mrs. Lestlie ). 
 For one hundred pounds of fine  pork  take seven
pounds of  coarse salt,  five pounds of 
 brown sugar,  two ounces of 
 saltpetre,  half an ounce of 
 soda,  and four gallons of 
 water.  Boil all together, and skim the 
 pickle  when cold. Pour it on the 
 meat,  which should first be rubbed all over with 
 red pepper.  Let  ham  and 
 tongues  remain in the 
 pickle eight weeks. Before they are smoked, hang them
up, and dry them two or three days. Then sew the  hams 
in cases. 
  
 
  TO BOIL HAM. If it is
quite salt, let it soak twenty-four hours. Cut off the end of the 
 knuckle-bone;  put it into a pot with  cold
water  at the back of the range to simmer slowly for eight hours;
then take it off the fire, and let it remain in the 
 water  until nearly cold; then peel off the skin
carefully, make spots at uniform distances with 
 pepper,  and wind fringed paper around the bone. Mrs.
Lestlie boils her  hams  with a bed of 
 hay  in the bottom of the pot. Some sprinkle 
 grated bread or crackers  over the 
 ham  when trimmed, and brown it in the oven; others
brush it thickly over with  glaze.  However well cooked,
it would be utterly ruined if it were not cut into thin, neat slices for
eating. 
 
 
  HAM AND EGGS. The 
 ham,  cut into thin slices, can be broiled or 
 saut&#233;d.  If broiled, spread over a little 
 butter  when cooked. The 
 eggs can be fried; but they are more wholesome poached
in  salted water.  In both cases they should be
carefully cooked, neatly trimmed, and an  egg  served on
each slice of  ham.  
 
 
  TO FRY OR SAUT&#233;
HAM. The  ham  should be cut into thin, neat
slices, and 
 saut&#233;d  only for a minute in a hot 
  saut&#233;  pan.  If it is
much more than thoroughly heated, it will become tough and dry. 
 
 
  PORK FRIED IN BATTER, OR EGGED
AND BREAD-CRUMBED. Roll very thin slices of breakfast 
 bacon  or  fat pork  in 
 fritter batter,  or  egg  and 
 bread-crumb  them, and fry them in boiling 
 lard.  Serve on  toast  or 
 fried mush  as a dish by itself, or as a garnish for
beefsteak, fried chickens, breaded chops, etc. 
 
 
  MRS. TROWBRIDGE'S BREAKFAST-BACON
DISH. Soak slices of  bacon  or 
 pork  in  milk  for fifteen
minutes; then dip them into  flour,  and fry them in the
  saut&#233;  pan.  When done, 
 saut&#233;  some slices of 
 potato  in the same hot 
 fat, and serve them in the centre of a hot dish, with a
circle of the slices of  pork  around them. 
  
 
  RASHERS OF PORK ( to serve with Beefsteak, Roast Beef, etc. ). 
 Breakfast bacon  should be cut very thin (one-eighth of
an inch thick), and in strips three or four inches long. It should be fired in
the   saut&#233;  pan  only
long enough to become transparent, or thoroughly hot; if cooked crisp, it is
ruined. The French usually serve these strips of  bacon 
laid over beefsteak, roast beef, game, etc. 
 
 
   SANDWICHES  ( Mrs. Geo. H. Williams ), No. 1. 
 Cut some fresh  bread  very thin, and of square equal
shapes. Chop some cold boiled  ham  very fine, and mix
wit it the  yolks of one or two uncooked eggs,  a little
 pepper  and  mustard.  Spread
some of this mixture over the buttered slices of 
 bread;  roll them, pinching each roll at the end to
keep it in shape. 
 If there is difficulty in cutting fresh  bread,  use
that which is a day old, then cut it in very thin slices, buttering it on the
loaf before it is cut; cut the slices into little even squares or diamonds (the
crust being all removed), spread with the chopped 
 ham mixture before mentioned, and fit two squares
together. 
 
 
   SANDWICHES  ( New York Cooking-school ), No. 2. 
 Chop fine half a pound of boiled  ham,  and season it
with one table-spoonful of  olive-oil,  one
table-spoonful of  lemon-juice,  a little 
 cayenne  or  mustard,  and rub
it through a sieve.  Butter  the 
 bread  on the loaf before cutting it, and spread the 
 ham  between the slices. 
 
 
  SMALL ROLLS, WITH SALAD
FILLING. Cut off a little piece of the top of a  French
roll,  and remove carefully the crumb from the inside. Prepare a 
 stuffing of cold chicken, tongue, and celery  (cut in
dice), mixed in   Mayonnaise dressing,  and fill the roll,
covering the top with the small piece cut off. 
 This makes a very nice lunch dish, or a lunch for traveling.  The
rolls may be filled with cold cooked  lobster,  cut into
little dice, and covered with a   Mayonnaise  dressing.   
     POULTRY. 
 IF care is taken in picking and dressing fowls or birds, there is no need of
washing them. In France it is never done, unless there is absolutely something
to wash off; then it is done as delicately as possible. In expostulating once
with an old negro auntie for soaking all the blood and flavor out of a fowl,
she quickly replied, "Bless my soul, child! haven't I cooked chickens for fifty
years?" 
 When you buy a goose or a duck, be sure that it is young. Never buy an old
duck. The first I ever bought were from a penful at market. I thought myself
very clever in choosing the largest, all being price; not so clever at dinner,
when my husband tried to carve those tough and aged drakes. 
 
  ROAST TURKEY. The
secret in having a good roast  turkey  is to baste it
often, and to cook it long enough. A small  turkey  of
seven or eight pounds (the best selection if fat) should be roasted or baked
three hours at least. A very large  turkey  should not
be cooked a minute less than four hours; an extra hour is preferable to a
minute less. If properly basted, they will not become dry. 
 With much experience in hotel life, where 
 turkeys are ruined by the wholesale, I have never seen
a piece of  turkey  that was fit to eat. Besides being
tasteless, they are almost invariably undercooked. First, then, after the 
 turkey  is dressed, season it well, sprinkling 
 pepper  and  salt  on the
inside; stuff it, and tie it well in shape; either lard the top or lay slices
of  bacon  over it; wet the skin, and sprinkle it well
with  pepper,   salt,  and 
 flour.  It is well to allow a 
 turkey  to remain some time stuffed before cooking.
Pour a little  boiling water  into the bottom of the 
 dripping-pan.  If it is to be roasted, do not put it too
near the coals at first, until it gets well heated through; then gradually draw
it nearer. The excellence of the  turkey  depends much
upon the frequency of basting it; occasionally baste it with a little 
 butter,  oftener with its own 
 drippings.  Just before taking it from the fire or out
of the oven, put on more  melted butter,  and sprinkle
over more  flour;  this will make the skin more crisp
  and brown. While the 
 turkey  is cooking, boil the 
 giblets  well; chop them fine, and mash the 
 liver.  When the  turkey  is
done, put it on a hot platter. Put the  baking-pan  on the
fire, dredge in a little  flour,  and when cooked stir
in a little  boiling water  or 
 stock;  strain it, skim off every particle of fat; add
the  giblets;  season with 
 salt and  pepper.  If 
 chestnut stuffing  is used,
add  A whole roast turkey served on a round
platter.  some boiled 
 chestnuts  to the  gravy;  this
is decidedly the best  sauce  for a 
 turkey.  Besides the 
 gravy, always serve  cranberry (see receipt,
page 204), currant, or plum jelly  with 
 turkey.  These are more attractive molded the day
before they are served. The  currant or plum jelly  is
melted and remolded in a pretty form.  Roast turkeys 
are often garnished with little  sausage-balls.  
 
 
  STUFFING FOR BAKED TURKEY, CHICKEN, VEAL, AND
LAMB  ( New York
Cooking-school ). 
 Soak half a pound of  bread  (with the crust cut off)
in tepid  water,  then squeeze it dry. Put three ounces
of  butter  into a  stew-pan,  and
when hot stir in a small  onion  minced (one and a half
ounces), which color slightly; then add the  bread, with
three table-spoonfuls of  parsley  (half an ounce)
chopped fine, half a tea-spoonful of powdered  thyme,  a
little grated  nutmeg,   pepper, 
 salt,  and a gill of 
 stock. Stir it over the fire until it leaves the bottom
and sides; then mix in two  eggs.  
 
 
  STUFFING FOR ROAST TURKEYS,
CHICKENS, DUCKS, AND GEESE. The commonest 
 stuffing  is this: Two 
 onions, five ounces of soaked and squeezed 
 bread,  eight  sage leaves,  an
ounce of  butter,   pepper,  
 salt,  one  egg,  a little piece
of  pork  minced. Mince the 
 onions,  and fry them in the   saut&#233;  pan  before adding them
  to the other ingredients. Some chopped 
 celery  is always a good addition. 
 
 
  CHESNUT, POTATO, VEAL, AND
OYSTER STUFFINGS. The  chestnut stuffing  is
made by adding  chestnuts  to the ordinary 
 stuffing.  They are put on the fire in a saucepan or 
 spider  to burst the skins; they are then boiled in very 
 salted water  or  stock;  some
are also put into the  sauce.  Or turkeys, etc., may be
stuffed with  boiled, mashed, and seasoned
sweet-potatoes  or  Irish potatoes.  
 The great cooks make extra trouble and expense in preparing a 
 force-meat stuffing  of  cold
veal,   cold ham,  
 bacon,  and a few 
 bread-crumbs,  mixed and seasoned with 
 cayenne,   salt,  
 lemon-juice,   summer savory,  
 parsley,  or any  sweet
herbs. Then they often add  truffles  cut
into little balls; or, an  oyster stuffing  is made by
merely adding plenty of whole  oysters  (not chopped) to
the ordinary  turkey bread stuffing.  It should be well
seasoned, or the  oysters  will taste insipid. 
 
 
  BOILED TURKEY. If a
boiled  turkey  is not well managed, it will be quite
tasteless. Choose a  hen turkey.  If not well trussed
and tied, the legs and wings of a boiled fowl will be found pointing to all the
directions of the compass. Cut the legs at the first joint and draw them into
the body. Fasten the small ends of the wings under the back, and tie them
securely with strong twine. Sprinkle over plenty of 
 salt,   pepper,  and 
 lemon-juice,  and put it into 
 boiling   water.  Boil it
slowly two hours, or until quite tender. It is generally served in a bed of 
 rice,  with  oyster, caper, cauliflower,
parsley, or 
 Hollandaise  sauce.  Pour part of the 
 sauce  over the  turkey. Reserve
the giblets for giblet soup. It can be stuffed or not, the same as for
roasting. 
 
 
  TURKEY OR CHICKEN
HASH is made like beef hash, only substituting 
 turkey  or  chicken  for
beef. 
 
 
  TURKEY BRAISED. If you
have an  old turkey  unfit for roasting or boiling,
braise  it for four or five hours, adding a little
 wine  (toward the last) to the 
 stock,  if you choose. 
 
 
  TURKEY GALANTINE, OR BONED
TURKEY. Choose a  fat hen turkey.  When
dressing it, leave the crop skin (the skin over the breast) whole; cut off the
legs, wings, and neck. Now slit the skin at the back, and carefully remove it
all around. Cut out the  breasts  carefully; cut them
into little elongated pieces, about a quarter of an inch square and an inch
long (parallelograms); or cut them any way you like. Season them with 
 pepper,   salt,  a little 
 nutmeg,   mace,  pounded 
 cloves,   sweet basil,  and a
little chopped  parsley,  all mixed. Now make a 
 force-meat,   A long
cylindrical package tied with string at each end and at two places in the
middle.  with a pound and a quarter of 
 lean veal  or fresh  pork,  well
freed from skin and gristle. Mix this with the  meat  of
the  turkey  (all but the 
 breasts ); chop it well. Then chop an equal volume of
fresh  bacon,  which mix with the other chopped 
 meat:  season this with the condiments last mentioned.
Now pound it in a  mortar  to a paste. Cut one pound of 
 truffles,  half a pound of cooked pickled 
 tongue,  and half a pound of cooked  fat
bacon,  into three-quarter-inch dice. Season these also. 
 Spread the  turkey skin  on a board. Make alternate
layers on it, first of half of the  force-meat,  then
half of the  turkey breasts,  then half of the dice of 
 tongue,   truffles,  and 
 bacon,  then  turkey fillets and
dice again: save some of the  force-meat  to put on the
last layer. Now begin at one side and roll it over, giving it a round and long
shape; sew up the  skin;  wrap it, pressing it closely
in a napkin; tie it at the extremities, and also tie it across in two places,
to keep it in an oval shape with round ends. 
 Boil the galantine gently for four hours in  boiling
water  (or, better, in  stock ), with the 
 bones  of the  turkey  thrown
in. At the end of that time, take the  stew-pan  off the
fire. Let the galantine cool in the liquor one hour; then drain it, and put it
on a dish with a seven-pound weight on it.  
 When cold, take the galantine out of the napkin; put it at the end of an
open oven for some minutes to melt the  fat,  which wipe
off with a cloth; glaze it, or sprinkle it with a little 
 egg  and fine  bread-crumbs, and
bake it a few minutes. It is, of course, to be sliced when eaten. It is
generally served placed on a wooden standard, as described for a 
 Mayonnaise  of salmon. 
 A boned  turkey,  or galantine, is seen at almost all
large parties. It is convenient to have one in the house, as it will keep for a
long time, and is very nice for lunch or tea. It costs ten dollars to buy one,
and about half of the amount to make it. Of course, it is some trouble to make;
yet if one's time is worth less than one's money, there is plenty of time for
the purpose, as it can be made three or four days before an entertainment. 
  Chicken and game galantines  are made in the same
way.  The figure on page 169 is a boned 
 turkey  or chicken prepared for boiling. 
 
 
  MIXED SPICES FOR
SEASONING. In cities, mixed spices can be purchased, which are
prepared by professional cooks, and which save much trouble to inexperienced
compounders. This is one of their receipts: "Take of 
 nutmegs  and  mace,  one ounce
each; of  cloves  and  white
pepper-corns,  two ounces each; of  sweet
basil,   marjoram,  and 
 thyme,  one ounce each, and half an ounce of 
 bay leaves:  these  herbs should
be previously dried for the purpose. Roughly pound the 
 spices,  then place the whole of the above ingredients
between two sheets of white paper, and after the sides have been folded over
tightly, to prevent the evaporation of the volatile properties of the 
 herbs  and  spices,  place them
in a warm place to become perfectly dry. They must then be pounded quickly put
though a sieve, corked up tightly in bottles, and kept for use. 
 
 
  A SIMPLE WAY OF PREPARING BONED
TURKEY OR CHICKEN. Boil a  turkey  or 
 chicken  in as little  water  as
possible, until the bones can easily be separated from the 
 meat.  Remove all of the skin; slice and mix together
the light and dark parts; season with 
 pepper  and  salt.  Boil down
the liquid in which the  turkey  or 
 chicken  was boiled; then pour it on the 
 meat.  Shape it like a loaf of bread; wrap it tightly
in a cloth; press it with a heavy weight for a few hours. When served, it is
cut into thin slices. 
   CHICKENS. 
 One is absolutely bewildered at the hundred dishes which are made of
chickens. Most of the 
 entr&#233;es  are prepared with the breasts alone,
called fillets. There are 
 boudins  and 
 quenelles  of fowls, and fillets of fowls 
 &#224; la Toulouse, &#224; la mar&#233;chale, 
etc., etc., and supreme of fillets of fowls 
  &#224; I&#233;carlate,  etc., and aspics of
fowls; then, chickens 
 &#224; la Marengo, &#224; la Lyonnaise, &#224; la
reine;  then, 
 marinades  and 
 capitolades  of chickens, and fricassees of chickens
of scores of names. I would explain some of these long-sounding terms if this
book were not already too long, and if at last they were any better than when
cooked in the more simple ways. 
 
  SPRING CHICKENS. The
excellence of  spring chickens  depends as much on
feeding as on cooking them. If there are conveniences for building a coop, say
five feet square, on the ground, where some spring 
 chickens  can be kept for a few weeks, feeding them
with the scraps from the kitchen, and grain, they will be found plump, the meat
white, and the flavor quite different from the thin, poorly fed 
 chickens  just from market. 
 The Southern negro cooks have certainly the best way of cooking spring 
 chickens,  and the manner is very simple. Cut them into
pieces, dip each piece hastily in  water,  then sprinkle
it with  pepper  and  salt,  and
roll it in plenty of  flour.  Have some 
 lard  in a   saut&#233;  pan  very hot, in which fry, or
rather 
 saut&#233;,  the 
 chickens, covering them well, and watching that they
may not burn. When done, arrange them on a hot dish; pour out the 
 lard  from the  spider,  if there
is more than a tea-spoonful; throw in a cupful or more of 
 milk,  or, better,  cream 
thickened with a little  flour;  stir it constantly,
seasoning it with  pepper  and 
 salt;  pour it over the 
 chickens.  It makes a pleasant change to add chopped 
 parsley  to the  gravy.  
 
 A nice dish is made by serving  cauliflower  in the
same platter with the dressing poured over both; or with 
 potatoes  cut out in little balls, and boiled in very 
 salt water,  served in the same way; or they may be
surrounded with  water-cresses.  
 
 
  SPRING CHICKENS,
BAKED. Cut them open at the back, spread them out in a 
 baking-pan,  sprinkle on plenty of 
 pepper,   salt,  and a little 
 flour.  Baste them well with  hot
water,  which should be in the bottom of the pan, also at different
times with a little  butter.  When done, rub 
 butter  over them, as you would beefsteak, and set them
in the oven for a moment before serving. 
 
 
  ROAST AND BOILED
CHICKENS.  Chickens  are roasted and boiled as
are turkeys. In winter there is no better way of cooking 
 chickens  than to boil them whole, and pour over them a
good  caper or pickle sauce  just before serving. A
large tough  chicken  is very good managed in this
manner. Of course, the  chicken  should be put
into  A round platter containing a whole chicken
served on a bed of rice.   boiling   water,  which should not
stop boiling until the  chicken  is entirely done. With
this management it will retain its flavor, yet the 
 water  in which it is boiled should always be saved for
soup. It is a valuable addition to any kind of soup. The cut represents a 
 chicken  in a bed of  rice.  
 
 
  BAKED CHICKENS OR FISH ( for Camping Parties ). Dress the 
 chickens  or  fish,  making as
small incisions as possible, and without removing the skin, feathers, or
scales. Fill them with the usual  bread stuffing,  well
seasoned with chopped  pork,  
 onion,   pepper,  and 
 salt.  Sew the cut quite firmly. Cover
  the  chicken  or 
 fish  entirely with wet clay, spreading it half an inch
to an inch thick. Bury it in a bed of hot ashes, with coals on top, and let it
bake about an hour and a quarter if it weighs two pounds. The skin, feathers,
or scales will peel off when removing the cake of clay, leaving the object
quite clean, and especially delicious with that "best of sauces, a good
appetite;" however, there is no reason why a camping party should not indulge
in other sauces at the same time. 
  A  chicken  may be surrounded in the same
way with a  paste of flour  and 
 water,  and baked in the oven.  
 
 
  A FRICASSEE OF
CHICKEN. Cut two  chickens  into pieces.
Reserve all the  white meat  and the best pieces for the
fricassee. The trimmings and the inferior pieces use to make the 
 gravy.  Put these pieces into a porcelain kettle, with
a quart of  cold water,  one 
 clove,   pepper,  
 salt,  a small  onion,  a little
bunch of  parsley,  and a small piece of 
 pork;  let it simmer for half an hour, and then put in
the pieces for the fricassee; let them boil slowly until they
are  A fricassee of chicken served on a round
platter.  quite done; take them out then, and keep
them in a hot place. Now strain the  gravy,  take off
all the fat, and add it to a  roux  of
half a cupful of  flour  and a small piece of 
 butter.  Let this boil; take it off the stove and stir
in three  yolks of eggs  mixed with two or three
table-spoonfuls of  cream;  also the  juice
of half a lemon.  Do not let it boil after the 
 eggs  are in, or they will curdle. Stir it well,
keeping it hot a moment; then pour it over the 
 chicken,  and serve. Some of the fricassees with long
and formidable names are not much more than  wine  or 
 mushrooms,  or both, added to this receipt. 
  
 
  FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN  ( Mrs. Gratz Brown ). 
  Saut&#233;  a 
 chicken (cut into pieces) with a little minced 
 onion,  in hot  lard.  When the
pieces are brown, add a table-spoonful of  flour,  and
let it cook a minute, stirring it constantly. Add then one and a half of 
 boiling water or  stock,  a
table-spoonful of  vinegar,  a table-spoonful of 
 sherry,  a tea-spoonful of  Worcestershire
sauce,   salt,  and 
 pepper.  When it is taken off the fire, strain the 
 sauce,  taking off any particles of fat; mix in the 
 yolk of an egg.  Pour it over the 
 chicken,  and serve. 
 
 
  RANAQUE CHICKENS. After
the first experience in making this  chicken  dish, it
is not difficult to prepare, and it makes an exceedingly nice course for
dinner. With a sharp  penknife,  silt the 
 chicken  down the back; then, keeping the knife close
to the bones, scrape down the sides, and the bones will come out. Break them at
the joints when coming to the drumsticks and wing-bones. These bones are left
in. Now chop fine, cold cooked  lamb  enough to stuff
the  chicken;  season it with 
 pepper,   salt,  one even
tea-spoonful  An illustration of ranaque chicken
served on a round platter.  of  summer
savory,  two heaping table-spoonfuls of chopped 
 pork,  and 
 plenty  of  lemon-juice,  or 
 juice of one lemon.  Stuff the 
 chicken,  and sew it, giving it a good shape; turn the
ends of the wings under the back, and tie them there firmly, also the legs of
the  chicken  down close to the back, so that the top
may present a plump surface, to carve in slices across, without having bones in
the way. Now lard the  chicken  two or three rows on
top. If you have no  larding-needle,  cut open the skin
with the  penknife,  and insert the little pieces of 
 pork,  all of  equal
length and size. Bake this until it is thoroughly done, basting it very often
(once or twice with a little  butter ). Pour a 
 tomato-sauce  (see page 125) around it in the bottom of
the dish in which it is served. 
 
 
  CHICKEN BREASTS. Trim
the  breasts of some chickens  to resemble trimmed lamb
chops. Stick a  leg bone  (the joints cut off at each
end) into the end of each cutlet;  pepper  and 
 salt  them, roll them in 
 flour,  and fry them in a   saut&#233;  pan  with 
 butter.  Serve them in a circle in a dish with 
 pease,   mashed potatoes,  
 cauliflowers,   beans,  or 
 tomatoes,  or almost any kind of vegetable, in the
centre. They are still nicer larded on one side, choosing the same side for all
of them. When larded, they should not be rolled in 
 flour.  This is a very nice course for a dinner
company. These fillets are also nice served in a circle, with the same 
 sauce  poured in the centre as is served with deviled
chicken. 
 
 
  DEVILED CHICKEN, WITH SAUCE  ( Cunard Steamer ). 
 The  chicken  is boiled tender in a little 
 salted water.  When cold, it is cut into pieces; these
pieces are basted with  butter,  and broiled. 
  Sauce. --One tea-spoonful of 
 made mustard,  two table-spoonfuls of 
 Worcestershire sauce,  three table-spoonfuls of 
 vinegar;  boil all together, and pour over the 
 chicken.  This dish is generally served on the Cunard
steamers for supper.  Or, boil the 
 chickens, cut them into pieces, 
 pepper  and  salt  them, roll
them in  flour,  
 saut&#233;  them in a little hot 
 lard,  and serve 
 cream-sauce, the same as for fried spring chickens.
This makes a good winter breakfast.  
 
 
  CHICKEN CROQUETTES  ( French Cook ). 
 Boil one  chicken,  with an 
 onion  and a clove of 
 garlic (if you have it) thrown into the 
 water,  add some  bones  and
pieces of  beef also; this will make a 
 stock,  if you have not some already saved. Cut the 
 chicken,  when cooked, into small dice; mince half of a
large  onion,  or one small one, and two sprigs of 
 parsley  together. Put into a saucepan a piece of 
 butter  the size of  a
small egg; when hot, put in the minced  onion  and 
 parsley  and half a cupful of 
 flour;  stir well until it is well
cooked  A ring of chicken croquettes served on a round
platter.  and of a light-brown color; then add a
cupful and a half of  stock,  or of the 
 stock  in the kettle, boiled down or reduced until it
is quite strong, then freed of fat; the stronger the 
 stock,  the better of course. Stir it into a smooth
paste, add  pepper,   salt,  not
quite half of a grated  nutmeg,  the  juice
of about a quarter of a lemon,  and two table-spoonfuls of 
 sherry,   Madeira,  or 
 port wine.  When all is well stirred, mix in the pieces
of  chicken.  Mold into the ordinary 
 croquette  shape, or into the form of pears. When
they are egged and cracker-crumbed, fry them in boiling hot 
 lard.  If they are molded into pear shape, a little
stem of  parsley  may be stuck into each pear after it
is cooked to represent the pear stem. 
 
 
  CHICKEN CROQUETTES  ( Mrs. Chauncey I. Filley ). 
 Ingredients: Two  chickens  and two sets of 
 brains,  both boiled; one tea-cupful of 
 suet,  chopped fine; two sprigs of 
 parsley,  chopped; one 
 nutmeg, grated; an even table-spoonful of 
 onion,  after it is chopped as fine as possible; the 
 juice and grated rind of one lemon;  
 salt  and  black and red
pepper,  to taste. Chop the  meat  very
fine; mix all well together; add  cream  until it is
quite moist, or just right for molding. This quantity will make two dozen 
 croquettes.  Now mold them as in cut (see above); dip
them into beaten  egg,  and roll them in pounded 
 cracker or bread-crumbs;  fry in boiling-hot 
 lard.   Cold meat  of any kind
can be made into 
 croquettes  following this receipt, only substituting
an equal amount of  meat  for the 
 chicken,  and of boiled 
 rice for the  brains.  
 Cold lamb  or  veal  is
especially good in 
 croquettes.   Cold beef  is
very good also. Many prefer two cupfuls of boiled 
 rice (fresh boiled and still hot when mixed with the 
 chicken ) for the chicken 
 croquettes,  instead of 
 brains.  
 
 
  CHICKEN CUTLETS. These
cutlets are only  chicken  
 croquettes  in a different form.
  Prepare them like trimmed lamb chops, in the
following manner: Make a shape pointed at one end and round at the other; then
press it with the blade of a knife, giving it the shape of a cutlet. 
 Egg  and  bread-crumb  these
cutlets, and fry them in boiling  lard;  then stick in a
paper ruffle at the pointed end. Serve them, one 
 cutlet  overlapping the other, in a circle, with a 
 tomato-sauce  in the centre of it, or around a pile of 
 mushrooms  or of  pease.  This
is considered a very palatable dish for a dinner company. 
 
 
  CHICKEN, WITH MACARONI OR WITH
RICE ( French Cook ). 
 Cut the  chicken  into pieces; fry or 
 saut&#233;  them in a little hot 
 drippings,  or in  butter  the
size of an egg; when nearly done, put the pieces into another saucepan; add a
heaping tea-spoonful of  flour  to the hot 
 drippings,  and brown it. Mix a little cold or 
 lukewarm water  to the  roux;  when smooth, add a pint or more of 
 boiling water;  pour this over the 
 chicken  in the saucepan, add a chopped sprig of 
 parsley,  a clove of  garlic,  
 pepper,  and  salt.  Let the 
 chicken  boil half or three-quarters of an hour, or
until it is thoroughly done; then take out the pieces of 
 chicken.  Pass the 
 sauce through a sieve, and remove all the 
 fat.  Have ready some  macaroni 
which has been boiled in  salted water,  and let it boil
in this  sauce.  Arrange the pieces of 
 chicken  tastefully on a dish; pour the 
 macaroni  and  sauce  over them,
and serve; or, instead of  macaroni,  use boiled 
 rice,  which may be managed in the same way as the 
 macaroni.  
 
 
  CHETNEY OF CHICKEN  ( Mrs. E. L. Youmans ). 
 Ingredients: One large or two small 
 chickens, one-quart can of 
 tomatoes,   butter  the size of
a pigeon's egg, one table-spoonful of  flour,  one
heaping tea-spoonful of minced  onion,  one tea-spoonful
of minced  pork,  one small bottle of 
 chetney  (one gill). 
 Press the  tomatoes  through a sieve. Put the 
 butter  (one and a half ounces) into a 
 stew-pan,  and when hot throw in the minced 
 onions;  cook them a few minutes, then add the 
 flour,  which cook thoroughly; now pour in the 
 tomato pulp,  seasoned with 
 pepper,   salt,  and the minced 
 pork,  and stir it thoroughly with an 
 egg-whisk  until quite smooth, and then mix well into
  it the chetney, and next the cooked 
 chicken  cut into pieces. The 
 chicken  may be 
 saut&#233;d  (if young) in a little hot 
 fat,  or it may be roasted or boiled as for a
fricassee. The  chicken  is neatly arranged on a hot
platter, with the  sauce  poured over.  Slices
of   beef   (the fillet
preferable) may be served in the same way with the  chetney
sauce.   
 This chetney is an Indian sauce, and can be procured at the first-class
groceries. 
 
 
  CURRY OF CHICKEN  ( Mrs. Youmans ). 
 Cut the  chicken  into pieces, leaving out the body
bones; season them with  pepper  and 
 salt;  fry them in a   saut&#233;  pan  in 
 butter;  cut an  onion  into
small slices, which fry in the  butter  until quite red;
now add a tea-cupful of  stock  freed from fat, an even
tea-spoonful of  sugar,  and a table-spoonful of 
 curry-powder,  mixed with a little 
 flour;  rub the 
 curry-powder and  flour  smooth
with a little  stock  before adding it to the saucepan;
put in the  chicken  pieces, and let them boil two or
three minutes; add then the  juice of half a lemon. 
Serve this in the centre of a bed of boiled  rice.  
    Veal,
lamb, rabbits, or turkey   may be cooked in the same
way.  The addition of half a 
 cocoa-nut, grated, is an improvement. 
 
 
  CHICKENS FOR SUPPER.  ( Mrs. Roberts, of Utica ). 
 After having boiled a  chicken  or 
 chickens  in as little  water as
possible until the  meat  falls from the bones, pick off
the  meat,  chop it rather fine, and season it well with
 pepper  and  salt.  Now put into
the bottom of a mold some slices of hard-  A fancy
molded dish garnished with vegetables and served on a round
platter.  boiled  eggs,  next
a layer of chopped  chicken,  then more slices of 
 eggs  and layers of 
 chicken until the mold is nearly full; boil down the 
 water  in which the  chicken 
was boiled until there is  about a cupful left,
season it well, and pour it over the  chicken;  it will
sink through, forming a jelly around it. Let it stand overnight or all day on
the  ice.  It is to be sliced at table. If there is any
fear about the jelly not being stiff enough, a little 
 gelatine  may be soaked and added to the cupful of 
 stock.  Garnish the dish with light-colored 
 celery leaves,  or with fringed 
 celery.  
 
 
  TO FRINGE CELERY FOR
GARNISHING. Cut the stalks into two-inch lengths; stick plenty of
coarse needles into the top of a cork; draw half of the stalk of each piece of 
 celery  through the needles. When all the fibrous parts
are separated, lay the  celery  in some cold place to
curl and crisp. 
 
 
  CHICKEN LIVERS. Chop a
little  onion,  and fry it in 
 butter  without allowing it to color; put in the 
 liver  and some  parsley,  and
fry or 
 saut&#233;  them until they are done; take out the 
 livers,  add a little  hot
water  to  stock  to the 
 onions  and  parsley,  thicken
it with some  flour  ( roux,  page 51); strain, season, and pour it over the
 livers.  
  If  stale bread  is cut into the shape of
a small vase or cup, then fried to a good color in boiling 
 lard,  it is called a  croustade.  One of these is often used with 
 chicken livers.  Part of the 
 livers  are put in the top of the 
 croustade  in the centre of the dish, and the
remainder are placed around it at the base. The dish is called "  croustade  of livers."   
 
 
  TURKISH PILAU. Truss
one  chicken  (two and a half pounds) for boiling, and
cut five pounds of  shoulder of mutton  (boned) into two
pieces, which roll into shape; put some  trimmings of
pork  (enough to keep the  meat  from
sticking) into a large saucepan, and when hot place in the 
 chicken  and the rolls of 
 mutton,  and brown them completely by turning them over
the fire. Now make what is called a bouquet, viz.: Put a  bay
leaf  on the table; on this place three of four sprigs of 
 parsley,  one sprig of 
 thyme, half of a  shallot,  four
 cloves,  and one table-spoonful of 
 saffron  (five  cents'
worth), and tie all together, leaving one end of the string long, to hang over
the top of the saucepan for convenience in taking out the bouquet. Put the 
 chicken,  the  mutton,  the
bouquet, and pinch of  salt  and 
 pepper  into three quarts of  boiling
water;  twenty minutes before they are done (it will require a
short hour to cook them), put in five ounces of 
 rice (soaked an hour in  cold
water ); when done, take out the bouquet; put the 
 chicken  in the centre of a warm platter; cut the 
 mutton  into slices or scollops about half an inch
thick, and form them in a circle by lapping one over the other around the 
 chicken.  Pour the hot soup (freed from grease) over
the  chicken;  or the  chicken 
may be cut into joints (seven pieces), and the circle around the platter may be
formed of the  chicken pieces and 
 mutton  scollops alternating, with the soup poured in
the centre. 
     GEESE, DUCKS, AND GAME. 
 
  ROAST GOOSE. THE 
 goose  should be absolutely young. Green 
 geese  are best, 
 i.e.,  when they are about four months old. In
trussing, cut the neck close to the back, leaving the skin long enough to turn
over the back; beat the breast-bone flat with the rolling-pin; tie or skewer
the legs and wing securely. Stuff the  goose  with the
following mixture: Four large  onions  (chopped), ten 
 sage leaves,  quarter of a pound of 
 bread-crumbs,  one and a half ounces of 
 butter,   salt  and 
 pepper,  one  egg,  a slice of 
 pork  (chopped). Now sprinkle the top of the 
 goose  well with  salt,  
 pepper,  and  flour.  Reserve
the  giblets  to boil and chop for the 
 gravy,  as you would for a turkey. Baste the 
 goose  repeatedly. If it is a green one, roast it at
least an hour and a half; if an older one, it would be preferable to bake it in
an oven, with plenty of  hot water  in the 
 baking-pan.  It should be basted very often with this 
 water,  and when it is nearly done baste it with 
 butter  and a little 
 flour. Bake it three or four hours. Decorate the 
 goose  with  water-cresses,  and
serve it with the brown  giblet gravy  in the 
 sauce-boat. Always serve an 
 apple-sauce  with this dish. 
  
 
  GOOSE STUFFING  ( Soyer's Receipt ). 
 Take four  apples  peeled and cored, four 
 onions,  four leaves of 
 sage, and four of  thyme.  Boil
them with sufficient  water  to cover them; when done,
pulp them through a sieve, removing the  sage  and 
 thyme;  then add enough pulp of mealy 
 potatoes  to cause the stuffing to be sufficiently dry,
without sticking to the hand. Add  pepper  and 
 salt,  and stuff the bird. 
 
 
  DUCKS. Truss and stuff
them with  sage  and  onions  as
you would a goose. If they are  ducklings,  roast them
from twenty-five to thirty minutes. Epicures say they like them quite
under-done, yet, at the same time, very hot. Full-grown 
 ducks  should be roasted an hour, and frequently
basted. Serve with them the  brown giblet gravy  or 
 apple-sauce,  or both.  Green
pease  should accompany the dish. Many parboil 
 ducks  before roasting or baking them. If there is a
suspicion of advanced age, parboil them. 
 
 
  WILD DUCKS. 
 Wild ducks  should be cooked rare, with or without 
 stuffing.  Baste them a few minutes at first with 
 hot water  to which have been added an 
 onion  and  salt.  Then take
away the pan, and baste with  butter,  and a little 
 flour  to froth and brown them. The fire should be
quite hot, and twenty to twenty-five minutes are considered the outside limit
for cooking them. A  brown gravy  made with the 
 giblets  should be served in the bottom of the dish.
Serve also a  currant-jelly.  Garnish the dish with
slices of  lemons.  
 
 
  DUCK AND PEASE STEWED  ( Warne ). 
 Remains of  cold roast duck,  with  peel
of half a lemon,  one quart of  green
pease,  a piece of  butter  rolled in 
 flour,  three-quarters of a pint of 
 gravy,   pepper,  
 salt,  and  cayenne  to taste.
Cut the  duck  into joints; season it with a very little
 Cayenne pepper  and  salt,  and
the  yellow peel of half a lemon  minced fine. Put it
into a  stew-pan,  pour the 
 gravy over, and place the pan over a clear fire to
become very hot; but do not let  the stew
boil. *  Boil a quart of green young 
 pease;  when they are done, drain off the 
 water,  add some  butter,  
 pepper,  and  salt.  Warm this
again over the fire. Pile the  pease  in the centre of a
hot dish; arrange the pieces of  duck  around them, and
serve. 
 
 
  STEWED DUCK. Cut the 
 duck  into joints. Put the 
 giblets  into a  stew-pan,  adding
 water  enough to cover them for the purpose of making a
 gravy.  Add two  onions, chopped
fine, two sprigs of  parsley,  three 
 cloves,  a  sage leaf,  
 pepper,  and  salt.  Let the 
 gravy  simmer until it is strong enough, then add the
pieces of  duck.  Cover, and let them stew slowly for
two hours, adding a little  boiling water  when
necessary. Just before they are done, add a small glassful of 
 port-wine  and a few drops of 
 lemon-juice.  Put the  duck  on
a warm platter, pour the  gravy  around, and serve it
with little diamonds of  fried bread  (
 cro&#251;tons ) placed around the
dish. 
 
 
  FILLETS OF DUCK. Roast
the  ducks,  remove the 
 breasts or  fillets,  and dish
them in a circle. Pour over a   poivrade 
sauce,  and fill the circle with 
 olives.  
 
 
  POIVRADE SAUCE. Mince
an  onion;  fry it a yellow color, with 
 butter,  in a  stew-pan;  pour a
gill of  vinegar;  let it remain on the fire until a
third of it is boiled away; then add a pint of  gravy or
 stock,  a bunch of  parsley, two
or three  cloves,   pepper, and 
 salt;  let it boil a minute; thicken it with a little 
 butter  and  flour  (
 roux ); strain it, and remove any
particles of fat. 
  The following note appears at the bottom of page 182 in the
original text. 
 *If the fowls are not tender, add a little water, and
stew them slowly until they are--ED. 
 
  PIGEONS STEWED IN
BROTH. Unless  pigeons  are quite young, they
are better braised or stewed in  broth  than cooked in
any other manner. In fact, I consider it always the best way of cooking them.
Tie them in shape; place slices of  bacon  at the bottom
of a  stew-pan;  lay in the 
 pigeons,  side by side, all their breasts uppermost;
add  a sliced  carrot,  add
 onion,  with a  clove  stuck in,
a tea-spoonful of  sugar,  and some 
 parsley,  and pour over enough 
 stock  to cover them. If you have
no  An illlustration of seven cooked pigeons arranged
on a round platter.  
 stock, use  boiling water.  Now
put some thin slices of  bacon  over the tops of the 
 pigeons;  cover them as closely as possible, adding 
 boiling water  or  stock  when
necessary. Let them simmer until they are very tender. Serve each 
 pigeon  on a thin piece of  buttered
toast,  with a border of  spinach,  or make
little nests of  spinach  on pieces of 
 toast,  putting a  pigeon  into
each nest. 
 
 
  ROAST PIGEONS. Never
roast  pigeons  unless they are young and tender. After
they are well tied in shape, drawing the skin over the back, tie thin slices of
 bacon  over the breasts, and put a little piece of 
 butter  inside each 
 pigeon. File them on a  skewer, 
and roast them before a brisk fire until thoroughly done, basting them with 
 butter.  
 
 
  PIGEONS BROILED. Split
the  pigeons  at the back, and flatten them with the 
 cutlet bat;  season, roll them in  melted
butter  and  bread-crumbs,  and broil them,
basting them with  butter.  Or, cut out the 
 breasts  (fillets), and broil them alone. Serve them on
thin pieces of  toast.  Make a 
 gravy  of the remaining portions of the 
 pigeons,  and pour it over them. 
 
 
  PRAIRIE-CHICKEN OR
GROUSE. They are generally split open at the back and broiled,
rubbing  A ring of prairie chickens surrounding a bed
of leafy vegetables on a round platter.  them with 
 butter;  yet as all but the 
 breast  is generally tough, it is better to fillet the 
 chicken,  or cut out the 
 breast.  The remainder of the 
 chicken  is cut into joints and parboiled. These pieces
are then  broiled  with
the  breasts  (which, please remember, are not
parboiled) after rubbing  butter  over them all. As soon
as they are broiled, sprinkle  pepper  and 
 salt,  and put a little lump of 
 butter,  on top of each piece, which then place for a
few moments in the oven to soak the  butter.  Serve with
 currant-jelly.  For fine entertainments the 
 breasts  alone are served. Each 
 breast  is cut into two pieces, so that one 
 chicken  is sufficient for four persons. If the dish is
intended for breakfast, serve each piece of  breast  on
a small square piece of  fried mush  (see receipt, page
73). If for dinner, serve each piece on a square of hot  buttered
toast,  with a little  currant-jelly  on top
of each piece of  chicken.  Garnish the plate with any
kind of  leaves,  or with 
 water-cresses.  At a breakfast party I once saw this
dish surrounded with  Saratoga potatoes.  The white 
 potatoes,  dark  meat,  and red 
 jelly  formed a pretty contrast. 
   TO CHOOSE A YOUNG
PRAIRIE-CHICKEN. 
 Bend the under bill. If it is tender, the chicken is young.  
 
  PRAIRIE-CHICKEN OR GROUSE
ROASTED. Epicures think that  grouse  (in fact,
all game) should not be too fresh. Do not wash them. Do not wash any kind of
game or  meat.  If proper care be taken in dressing them
they will be quite clean, and one could easily wash out all their blood and
flavor. Put plenty of  butter  inside each 
 chicken:  this is necessary to keep it moist. Roast the
grouse half an hour and longer, if liked thoroughly done; baste them constantly
with  butter.  When nearly done, sprinkle over a little 
 flour  and plenty of  butter  to
froth them. After having boiled the  liver  of the
grouse, mince and pound it, with a little  butter,  
 pepper,  and  salt,  until it is
like a paste; then spread it over hot  buttered
toast. Serve the grouse on the  toast, 
surrounded with  water-cresses.  
 
 
  QUAILS PARBOILED AND
BAKED. Tie a thin slice of  bacon  over the
breast of each bird; put the  quails  into a 
 baking-dish,  with a little  boiling
water;  cover it closely and set it on top of the range, letting
the birds steam ten or fifteen minutes. This
plumps them. Then take off the cover and the  pork,  and
put the birds into the oven, basting them often with 
 butter.  Brown them, and serve with 
 currant-jelly.  
 
 
  QUAILS ROASTED. Cover
the  breasts  with very thin slices of 
 bacon,  or rub them well with 
 butter;  roast them before a good fire, basting them
often with  butter.  Fifteen minutes will cook them
sufficiently, if they are served very hot, although twenty minutes would be my
rule, not being an epicure.  Salt  and 
 pepper  them. Serve on a hot dish the moment they are
cooked. They are very good with a  bread-sauce  made as
follows: 
 
 
  BREAD-SAUCE, FOR GAME  ( Mrs. Crane ). 
 First roll a pint of dry  bread-crumbs,  and pass
half of them through a sieve. Put a small  onion  into a
pint of  milk,  and when it boils remove the 
 onion,  and thicken the 
 milk with the half-pint of sifted crumbs; take it from
the the fire, and stir in a heaping tea-spoonful of 
 butter,  a grating of  nutmeg,  
 pepper  and  salt.  Put a little
 butter into a   saut&#233;  pan,  and when hot throw in the
half-pint of coarser crumbs which remained in the sieve; stir them over the
fire until they assume a light-brown color, taking care that they do not burn,
and stir into them a small pinch of  Cayenne pepper. 
They should be rather dry. For serving, put a plump roast 
 quail  on a plate, pour over a table-spoonful of the 
 white sauce,  and on this place a table-spoonful of the
crumbs. The  sauce-boat  and plate of crumbs may be passed
separately, or the host may arrange them at table before the birds are passed.
This makes a dish often seen in England. 
 
 
  CUTLETS OF QUAILS OR OF
PIGEONS. With a sharp-pointed knife carefully cut the 
 breasts  from  quails  or 
 pigeons;  or, as professional cooks say, fillet them.
At the small end of each  breast  stick in a 
 bone taken from the leg,  and trimmed. The 
 breasts  should now resemble cutlets. Sprinkle a little
 pepper  and  salt  over each
one, dip it in  melted butter,  and roll it in 
 flour  or sifted 
 cracker-crumbs.  Put the cutlets one side until ready to cook, as they should be
cooked only just before sending them to the table. They should then be fried in
a   saut&#233; pan  in hot 
 butter.  They may be served without further trouble in
a circle with a centre of  green pease,  which makes a
most delicate dish for a company dinner course. However, there is a more
elaborate way of finishing them, as follows: Put the carcasses into some 
 cold water  with very small pieces of 
 pork  and  onion, sufficient
only to produce the slightest flavoring. Simmer this about an hour; strain,
thicken with a little browned  roux,  and
season it with a little  pepper  and 
 salt.  As soon as the  livers 
are done, take them out, mash, and moisten them with a little of the 
 sauce.  Prepare little thin pieces of 
 toast,  one for each  breast;  
 butter,  and spread them with the mashed 
 livers.  Turn the cutlets over in this 
 sauce,  and use the little of it that remains for
dipping in the pieces of  toast.  Serve the cutlets on
the  toast   Quail or pigeon
cutlets served in a ring around a mound of peas.  in
a circle, with a centre of  pease,   French
string-beans ( haricots verts ),  
 potatoes 
 &#224; la Parisienne,   or 
 mushrooms;  or cut the pieces of 
 toast  into the form of a long triangle, so that the
points may meet in the centre, and place the bones of the cutlets to meet in
the centre also. Put then a row of  vegetables  on the
outside. 
 
 
  SCOLLOPS OF QUAILS, WITH
TRUFFLES ( Gouff&#233; ). 
 Remove the  fillets  or 
 breasts  of six  quails.  Cut
each fillet in two, and trim the parts to a round shape. Cook half a pound of 
 truffles  in  Madeira,  and cut
them into slices. Put the scollops of  quails  into a 
  saut&#233;  pan  with some 
 butter;  fry them until they are done, then mix them
with the  truffles.  Put a nice border on a dish; pile
the centre with the scollops and  truffles;  pour in
some  Espagnole or brown sauce,  flavored with a little 
 Madeira,  and serve. 
 Truffles can be procured canned. 
 
 
  ESPAGNOLE SAUCE. Melt 
 butter  the size of an egg; when hot, add to it two or
  three table-spoonfuls of 
 flour.  Stir this carefully over a slow fire until it
has taken a clear, light-brown color. Mix in this one half pint of 
 stock,   broth,  or 
 gravy;  then put it to the side of the fire to simmer
until wanted, skimming it carefully, and not allowing it to stick to the bottom
of the pan. Strain it. Just before serving it with the quails, add one or two
tea-spoonfuls of  Madeira.  
 
 
  QUAILS BROILED. Split
them at the back. Broil, basting them often with 
 butter,  over a hot fire. As soon as the 
 quails  are done, add a little more 
 butter,  with  pepper  and 
 salt,  and place them for a moment into the oven to
soak the  butter.  Serve them on thin slices of 
 buttered toast,  with a little 
 currant-jelly  on top of each 
 quail.  
 
 
  QUAILS BRAISED. 
 Quails  are sometimes braised in the same manner as
pigeons. (See receipt). 
 
 
  SNIPE AND WOODCOCK
FRIED. Dress and wipe them clean. Tie the legs close to the body; skin
the heads and necks, and tie  An illustration of a
trussed bird on a skewer.  the beaks under the wing;
tie, also, a very thin piece of  bacon  around the
breast of each  bird,  and fry in boiling 
 lard.  It only requires a few moments--say two
minutes--to cook them. Season and serve them on 
 toast. Some pierce the legs with the beak of the bird,
as in the cut. 
 
 
  SNIPE AND WOODCOCK
ROASTED. The following is the epicure's manner of cooking them, not
mine. Carefully pluck them, and take the skin off the heads and necks. Truss
them with the head under the wing. Twist the legs at the first joint, pressing
the feet against the thigh. Do not draw them. Now tie a thin slice of 
 bacon  around each; run a small iron 
 skewer  through the birds, and tie it to a spit at
  both ends. Roast them at a good fire, placing a 
 dripping-pan,  with buttered slices of 
 toast  under them, to catch the trail as it falls.
Baste the  snipe  often with a 
 paste-brush  dipped in  A line
of five trussed birds on a skewer.  
 melted butter.  Let them roast twenty minutes; then 
 salt  the birds, and serve them immediately on the
pieces of  toast.  
 
 
  REED-BIRDS  ( Henry Ward Beecher's Receipt ). 
 Cut  sweet-potatoes  lengthwise; scoop out in the
centre of each a place that will fit the  bird.  Now put
in the birds, after seasoning them with  butter,  
 pepper,  and  salt,  tying the
two pieces of  potato  around each of them. Bake them.
Serve them in the  potatoes.   Or, they can be
roasted or fried in boiling  lard  like other
birds.  
 
 
  PLOVERS are cooked in
the same way as quails or partridges. 
 
 
  PHEASANTS are cooked in
the same way as prairie-chicken or grouse. 
   VENSION. 
 
  THE SADDLE OF
VENSION. This is, perhaps, the most distinguished 
 venison  dish. Make rather deep incisions, following
the grain of the  meat  from the top, and insert pieces
of  pork  about one-third of an inch square, and one
inch and a half or two inches long; sprinkle over 
 pepper,   salt,  and a little 
 flour.  Roast or bake the 
 venison  before a 
 hot  fire or in a 
 hot  oven, about two hours for an eight-pound roast.
Baste often. Serve a  currant-jelly sauce  in the 
 sauce-boat.  
 A good accompaniment at table for a roast of 
 venison  is a   dish of 
 potatoes 
 &#224; la neige   (see page 192), the
dark meat and white potatoes forming a pretty contrast. 
 
 
  ROAST OR BAKED HAUNCH OF
VENISON. Cut off part of the 
 knuckle-bone, round it at the other extremity, sprinkle
over  pepper and  salt,  and
cover the whole with a  paste of flour  and 
 water  or coarse  corn-meal; 
tie firmly a thick paper around. Place it near the fire at first to harden the
paste, basting well the paper to keep it from burning; then remove it a little
farther from the fire. Have a strong, clear fire. It will take about three
hours to roast this joint, at the end of which time remove the paste.
 Car&#234;me  would glaze it. This is, after all, a
simple operation. It is a  stock  boiled down to a firm
jelly, the jelly melted, and spread upon the  meat  with
a brush. Put some frills of paper around the bone, and serve 
 currant-jelly  with it. If it be baked, the paste
should cover it in the same way. It would also take the same length of time to
cook. 
  The   neck of
venison   makes a good roast also.  
 
 
  TO BROIL VENISON
STEAKS. Have the  gridiron  hot; broil, and put
them on a hot dish; rub over them  butter,  
 pepper,   salt,  and a little
melted  currant-jelly.  Some cooks add a table-spoonful
of  Madeira,   sherry,  or 
 port  to the melted 
 currant-jelly.  
 If one does not wish to serve the  jelly,  simply
garnish the dish with  lemon-slices.  
 
 
  STEWED VENISON. Cut it
into  steaks;  spread over them a thin layer of 
 stuffing  with 
 bread-crumbs, minced  onion,  
 parsley,   pepper,  
 salt,  and a little  pork 
chopped fine; now roll them separately, and tie them each with a cord; stew
them in  boiling water  or 
 stock.  Thicken the  gravy  with
 flour  and  butter  mixed (see 
 roux,  page 51), and add one or two
spoonfuls of  sherry  or  port
wine.  
  
 
  RABBITS ROASTED. Skin
and dress the  rabbits  as soon as possible, and hang
them  overnight. Roast them before a moderate
fire, basting them with  butter  and a little 
 flour  when nearly done. 
 
 
  RABBITS BAKED. After
they are skinned, dressed, and hung overnight, put them into a 
 baking-pan;  sprinkle over 
 pepper  and  salt,  and put also
a thin paste of  bacon  on the top of each 
 rabbit.  Now pour some  boiling
water  into the bottom of the pan, and cover it with another pan of
equal size, letting the  rabbits  steam about fifteen or
twenty minutes; then take off the cover, baste them with a little 
 butter,  and let them brown. 
  Rabbits  are much improved by larding. 
    VEGETABLES. 
 
  TO PRESERVE THE COLOR OF
VEGETABLES. THE French cooks very generally use  carbonate
of ammonia  to preserve the color of vegetables. What would lay on
the point of a  penknife  is mixed in the 
 water  in which the 
 vegetables (such as  pease,  
 spinach,   string-beans,  and 
 asparagus ) are boiled. The 
 ammonia  all evaporates in boiling, leaving no ill
effects. They say also that it prevents the odor of boiling 
 cabbage.  It may be obtained at the drug-stores. 
 
 
  POTATOES BOILED. Choose
those of equal size. They look better when thinly peeled before they are
boiled; but it is more economical to boil them before skinning, as careless
cooks generally pare away half of the  potato  in the
operation, and the best part of the  potato  is that
which lies nearest the skin. Put them into an iron pot or saucepan in just
enough   well-salted
cold water  to cover them. Let them boil until they are 
 nearly  done; then pour off all but about half a
cupful of the  water  in the bottom of the pot; return
the  potatoes  to the fire, put on a close cover, and
let them steam until quite done; then remove the lid, sprinkle 
 salt  over them, and let them remain a few moments
  on the fire to evaporate the 
 water.  Remove them carefully, and serve immediately.
They should be dry and flaky. 
 If one has a cook too heedless to steam the 
 potatoes  properly, it should be remembered that 
 potatoes  should never be allowed to 
 soak  in the  water  a moment
after they are done; the  water  should be immediately
poured off, and the steam evaporated. It is important that 
 potatoes  should be done just at the moment of serving.
It requires about thirty-five minutes to boil the medium-sized. 
 
 
  TO BOIL POTATOES  ( Captain Kater to Mrs. Acton ). 
 Pare the  potatoes;  cover them with  cold
water;  boil them gently until they are done. Pour off the 
 water,  and sprinkle  salt  over
them; then with a spoon take each  potato  and lay it
into a clean, 
 warm  cloth; twist this so as to press all the
moisture from the vegetable, and render it quite round; turn it carefully into
dish placed before the fire; throw a cloth over; and when all are done, send
them to the table immediately.  Potatoes  dressed in
this way are mashed without the slightest trouble. 
 
 
  MASHED POTATOES. Every
one thinks she can make so simple a dish as that of mashed 
 potatoes;  but it is the excellence of art to produce
good mashed as well as good boiled  potatoes.  In fact,
I believe there is nothing so difficult in cookery as to properly boil a 
 potato.  
 To mash them, then, first boil them properly. Put into a hot 
 crock  basin, which can be placed at the side of the
fire, half a cupful or more of  cream,  a piece of 
 butter  the size of an egg, plenty of 
 salt  and  pepper,  and let them
get hot. One of the secrets of good mashed  potatoes  is
mixing of the ingredients all hot. Now add six or seven 
 potatoes  the moment they are done, and mash them
without stopping until they are as smooth as possible; then work them a very
few moments with a fork, and serve them immediately. Do not rub egg over, and
bake them; that ruins them. Much depends upon mashed 
 potatoes  being served at table 
 hot,  and freshly made. They are very nice prepared 
 &#224; la neige.  
  
 
  POTATOES &#224; LA
NEIGE. These are  mashed potatoes  made as in
the preceding receipt, pressed through a  colander  into a
dish in which they are to be served. The  potatoes  then
resemble  rice  or 
 vermicelli, and are very light and nice. They make a
pretty dish, and must be served very hot. They make a favorite accompaniment to
venison, and are often served around a rolled rib roast of beef. 
 
 
  TO BAKE POTATOES The 
 potatoes  must be of equal size. Put them into a hot
oven and bake until tender. The excellence of baked 
 potatoes  depends upon their being served immediately
when they are just baked enough. A moment underdone, and they are indigestible
and worthless; a moment overdone, and they have begun to dry. It requires about
an our to bake a large  potato.  This is a favorite way
of cooking  potatoes  for lunch or tea. 
 
 
  POTATOES IN CASES. The
following is an exceedingly nice way of serving baked 
 potatoes.  Bake  potatoes  of
equal size, and when done, and still hot, cut off a small piece from each 
 potato;  scoop out carefully the inside, leaving the
skin unbroken; mash the 
 potato   Four potatoes in
cases served in a fancy bowl.  well, seasoning it
with plenty of  butter,  
 pepper,  and  salt;  return it
with a spoon to the  potato skin,  allowing it to
protrude about an inch above the  skin.  When enough 
 skins  are filled, use a fork or knife to make rough
the  potato  which projects above the 
 skin;  put all into the oven a minute to color the
tops. It is better, perhaps, to color them with a 
 salamander.  They will have the appearance of baked 
 potatoes  burst open. 
 
 
  POTATOES BAKED WITH
BEEF. Pare  potatoes  of equal size, and put
them into the oven in  the same pan in which the 
 beef  is baked. Every time the 
 beef  is basted, the 
 potatoes should be basted also. Serve them around the 
 beef.  
 
 
  POTATOES &#224; LA
PARISIENNE. Peel the  potatoes,  and with a 
 vegetable-cutter  (three-fourths of an inch in diameter)
cut as many little balls as you can from each 
 potato; throw these balls into boiling-hot 
 lard,  and fry (about five minutes) until done, when
they must be skimmed out immediately. It is more convenient to fry them in a
wire-basket (see page 53). Sprinkle  salt  over them as
soon as done. It is a very good way of cooking 
 potatoes  as a garnish for beefsteak or game. The
cuttings of the  potatoes  left after taking out the
balls can be boiled and mashed. These  potatoes must be
served when done, or the cutlets will lose their crispness. 
 
 
  SARATOGA POTATOES. It
requires a little plane, or  potato or cabbage cutter,  to
cut these  potatoes.  Two or three fine, large 
 potatoes  (ripe new ones are preferable) are selected
and pared. They are cut, by rubbing them over the plane, into slices as thin or
thinner than a wafer. These are placed for a few moments in 
 ice,  or very  cold water,  to
become chilled. Boiling  lard  is now tested, to see if
it is of the proper temperature. The slices must color quickly; but the 
 fat  must not be so hot as to give them a dark
color. 
 Place a salt-box on the hearth; also a dish to receive the cooked 
 potatoes  at the side; a tin plate and 
 perforated ladle  should be at hand also. Now throw,
separately, five or six slices of the cold  potato  into
the hot  lard;  keep them separated by means of the
ladle until they are of a delicate yellow color; skim them out into the tin
plate; sprinkle over some  salt,  and push them on the
dish. Now pour back any  grease  that is on the tin
plate into the kettle, and fry five or six slices at a time until enough are
cooked. Two  potatoes  fried will make a large
dishful. 
 It is a convenient dish for a company dinner, as it may be made early in the
day; and by being kept in a dry, warm place (for instance, a kitchen-closet),
the potato-slices will be crisp and  nice five or
six hours afterward. They are eaten cold, and are a pretty garnish around game,
or, in fact, any other kind of meat. 
 
 
  FRIED POTATOES. Fried 
 potatoes  must absolutely be served the moment they
come from the fire. Nothing deteriorates more by getting cold or keeping than
fried  potatoes  (with the exception of Saratoga fried 
 potatoes,  which are served cold). They may be sliced
rather thin, and 
 saut&#233;d  in a little hot 
 butter,   pepper,  and 
 salt.  The French usually cut 
 potatoes  into little rhomboidal lengths, and throw
them into boiling  lard,  or  clarified
grease  (see page 44). 
 The fat should be quite hot, and the pieces of 
 potato  skimmed out the moment they receive a delicate
color, and placed on a sieve by the side of the fire. Sprinkle over 
 salt,  and serve them in a hot dish. 
 
 
  LYONNAISE
POTATOES. Ingredients: Half a pound of  cold boiled
potatoes,  two ounces of  onion,  a heaping
tea-spoonful of minced  parsley,  
 butter  the size of an egg. 
 Slice the cold boiled  potatoes.  Put the 
 butter  into a saucepan, and when hot throw in the 
 onion  (minced), which fry to a light color; add the
sliced  potatoes,  which turn until they are thoroughly
hot, and of light color also; then mix in the minced 
 parsley,  and serve immediately while they are quite
hot. The potato-slices should be merely moistened with the  butter
dressing.  
 
 
  POTATO CROQUETTES. Add
to four or five  mashed potatoes  (made according to
receipt, see page 191) a little  nutmeg,  
 Cayenne pepper,  and the beaten  yolk of one
egg.  Beat the  potatoes  with a fork; roll
them into little balls, which roll in  egg  and 
 cracker-crumbs,  and fry them in a wire-basket in
boiling  lard.  For a change, a little minced 
 parsley  might be added. 
 At the  New York Cooking-school  the teacher passed
the  seasoned potatoes  through a sieve, and then
returned them to the fire, stirring them with a wooden spoon until they left
the sides  and bottom of the pan. He said this
prevented them from 
 cracking  when frying. 
 
 
  POTATO ROSES. Pare
carefully with a thin  penknife  some peeled 
 potatoes,  round and round, until all of each 
 potato  is pared to the centre. Do not attempt to cut
the slices too thin, or they will break. Place them in a wire-basket, and dip
into boiling  lard.  These 
 potatoes  are a pretty garnish around a roast, and are
supposed to resemble roses. 
 
 
  POTATOES FOR
BREAKFAST. Slice a generous pint of  cold boiled
potatoes.  Put into the brightest of saucepans 
 butter  the size of a pigeon's egg, and when it bubbles
add an even tea-spoonful of  flour  (the 
 sauce  not to be thick), which cook a moment, and then
pour in a cupful of  milk  (or, better, 
 cream ),  salt,  and 
 pepper;  stir with an 
 egg-whisk until it boils, then mix in the potato-slices.
When they are thoroughly hot they are ready to be served. 
 
 
  POTATO PUFF. Stir two
cupfuls of  mashed potatoes,  two table-spoonfuls of 
 melted butter,  and some 
 salt to a fine, light, and creamy condition; then add
two  eggs  well beaten separately, and six
table-spoonfuls of  cream;  beat it all well and lightly
together; pile it in rocky form on a dish; bake it in a quick oven until nicely
colored. It will become quite light. 
 
 
  SHOO-FLY
POTATOES. There is a machine which comes for the purpose of cutting
shoo-fly  potatoes;  it costs two dollars and a half.
The  potatoes  are cut into long strips like 
 macaroni,  excepting that the sides are square instead
of round. They are thrown into boiling  lard,  sprinkled
with  salt  as soon as done, and served as a vegetable
alone, or as a garnish around meat. 
 
 
  TURNIPS. The 
 ruta-baga turnips  are sweetest and best. Pare and cut
  them in pieces of equal size; put them into 
 well-salted boiling water,  and, when perfectly tender,
drain them dry; let them remain a moment on the fire to evaporate the 
 water,  then mash them in a 
 stew-pan,  in which is hot 
 butter,   pepper  and 
 salt  to taste. Stir them over the fire until they are
thoroughly mixed and keep them in the  stew-pan  until
just before serving, as  turnips  should be served very
hot. 
 
 
  TURNIPS IN SAUCE  ( French Cook ). 
 Cut three good-sized  turnips  into slices, or
parallelograms, as long as the  turnip,  and about half
an inch thick. If they are not young and tender, they should be boiled until
half done; but they should not be boiled at first if young. Put a piece of 
 butter  the size of an egg into a saucepan; when hot,
put in the pieces of  turnips,  and fry them to a
light-brown color. When done, add a heaping tea-spoonful of 
 sugar;  mix, and then pour in a tea-cupful of 
 stock  ( boiling water  would
answer, but not so well); put this at the side of the fire to simmer until they
are done, adding a little  pepper  and 
 salt.  Now put a little more 
 butter,  the size of a walnut, into a saucepan, adding
a heaping tea-spoonful of  flour;  mix, and add a little
 lukewarm water.  When smoothly mixed, add the 
 sauce of the turnips;  when both are well mixed, add
the  turnip  slices; they are then ready to serve. 
 
 
  PARSNIPS
SAUT&#233;D. Parboil them; then, after cutting lengthwise, 
 saut&#233;  them to a light-brown in a little hot 
 butter  or  drippings.  
 
 
  PARSNIP FRITTERS. This
is undoubtedly the best manner of cooking 
 parsnips: Scrape, and, if large, cut them; put them
into  well-salted boiling water,  and boil until tender;
then mash them, adding to four or five  parsnips  a
heaping tea-spoonful of  flour,  one or two 
 eggs  well beaten,  pepper  and 
 salt  to taste. Form the mixture into small cakes
three-quarters of an inch thick and two and a half inches in diameter, and fry
them on both sides to a delicate brown in a   saut&#233;  pan, with a little hot 
 butter.  Serve hot. 
  
 
  OYSTER-PLANT
FRITTERS are best made into little cakes, as described for parsnip
fritters. They may, however, be made smaller, in order to imitate fried
oysters. 
 
 
  OYSTER-PLANTS
STEWED. As you scrape them, throw them into a bowl of  cold
water,  in which is mixed a table-spoonful of 
 vinegar.  When all are scraped, cut them either into
half-inch lengths, or lengthwise into four pieces, which again cut into
three-inch lengths; throw them into  boiling water,  in
which are half a tea-spoonful of  salt  and one-third of
a tea-spoonful of  sugar  to one quart of 
 water.  When done, drain, and mix them with 
 white sauce,  either  drawn
butter  or simple  Bechamel.  
 
 
  CARROTS. The best mode
of cooking  carrots  is to boil them with 
 corned beef,  and then serve them as a garnish around
the  meat.   Carrots  require a
longer time to boil than almost any other vegetable. If large, boil them an
hour and a half. It improves their appearance to cut them into shapes of balls
or pears before boiling; or they may be cut into half-inch slices, and then
shaped with the  tin cutters  (see page 55). These come in
different sizes. 
 
 
  BEETS. If they are
winter  beets,  soak them overnight; in any case, be
very careful not to prick or cut the skin before boiling, as they will then
lose their color; put them into  boiling water,  and
boil until tender. If they are served hot, pour a little  melted
butter,   pepper,  and 
 salt  over them. They are often served cold, cut into
slices, with some  vinegar  over them, or cut into
little dice and mixed with other cold vegetables, for a winter salad. 
 
 
  CAULIFLOWER, WITH WHITE
SAUCE. Trim off the outside leaves, and put the 
 cauliflower  into  well-salted boiling
water.  Be careful to take it out as soon as tender, to prevent it
dropping into pieces. Make, in a saucepan, a  white
sauce  as follows: Put  butter  the size of
an egg into  the saucepan, and when it bubbles
stir in a scant half tea-cupful of  flour;  stir well
with an  egg-whisk  until cooked;
then  Two heads of cauliflower served on a round
platter and covered with sauce.  add two tea-cupfuls
of thin  cream,  some  pepper and
 salt.  Stir it over the fire until perfectly smooth.
Pour the  sauce  over the 
 cauliflower,  and serve. Many let the 
 cauliflower  simmer in the 
 sauce  a few moments before serving. The 
 sauce Hollandaise  is very fine for 
 cauliflower.  
   Cauliflower  is delicious served as a
garnish around fried spring chickens, or with fried sweet-breads, when the 
 white sauce  should be poured over both. In this case,
it should be made by adding the  cream,  
 flour,  and  seasoning  to the
little  grease  (half a tea-spoonful) that is left
after saut&#233;ing  the 
 chickens or  sweet-breads.  Time
to cook, fifteen minutes, if small; twenty minutes, if large.  
 
 
  CAULIFLOWERS, WITH
CHEESE. Add plenty of  grated cheese  (say a
cupful to a pint of  sauce ) to the usual 
 white sauce  made for 
 cauliflowers.  Heat the 
 sauce well, to melt the  cheese 
thoroughly, and pour it over the  cauliflowers.  
  cauliflower  is valuable as a salad, with the 
  Mayonnaise  dressing,  or,
mixed with other cold vegetables, with the  French
dressing.  See Salads. 
 
 
  ASPARAGUS. Tie the
stalks in bundles, keeping the heads one way, and cut off the stalks, so that
they may be of equal length. Put them into
well-salted  A line of asparagus stalks served on an
oval platter.   boiling
water,  and cook until they are tender (no longer). While boiling,
prepare some thin slices of  toast;  arrange the 
 asparagus,  when well drained, neatly upon
  it, and pour over a  white
sauce,  as for cauliflower. The  sauce
Hollandaise  is especially nice for 
 asparagus.  Time to cook 
 asparagus,  about eighteen minutes. 
 
 
  PEASE.  American mode:  First boil the 
 pods,  which are sweet and full of flavor, in a little 
 water;  skim them out, and add the 
 pease,  which boil until tender; add then a little 
 butter,   cream,  
 pepper,  and  salt.  If they are
served as a garnish, do not add the juice; but, if served alone, the 
 juice  is a savory addition. Time to cook, about half
an hour. 
 The  American canned pease  should be rinsed before
cooking, as the  juice  is generally thick. The 
 pease  are then thrown into a little 
 boiling water  seasoned with 
 salt,  and a little  sugar;  
 butter  is added when done. 
   English mode:  Throw the 
 pease  into  boiling water, with
some  lettuce leaves  and a sprig of 
 mint  in the bottom of the 
 stew-pan.  To each quart of 
 pease  allow two table-spoonfuls of 
 butter  and a lump of  loaf
sugar;  cover the  stew-pan  closely, and boil
until they are tender--thoroughly done; then separate the 
 pease  from the other ingredients, sending them only to
the table. This cooking of  pease  with 
 mint  (universally done in England) is a good way of
utterly destroying the delicious natural flavor of the 
 pea.   
 
 
  SPINACH. Having washed
it thoroughly, put it into just enough  salted boiling
water  to cover it. When it is tender, squeeze out all the 
 water,  and press it through a 
 colander;  then 
 saut&#233;  it a few minutes, with
a  Six mounds of asparagus topped with hard boiled
eggs served on an oval platter.  little 
 butter,   pepper,  and 
 salt.  Serve with sliced,  hard-boiled
eggs  on top; or, if it is used as a garnish for lamb, add a little
 lemon-juice  and a spoonful of 
 stock.  Or, it is nice served as a course by itself,
arranged on a platter as follows:  
  Put a circle of thin slices of  buttered
toast  (one slice for each person at table) around the dish, and on
each slice put a cupful of  spinach,  neatly smoothed in
shape. Press the half of a  hard-boiled egg  into the
top of each pile of  spinach,  leaving the cut part of
the  egg  uppermost.  
 
 
  TOMATOES STEWED. Pour 
 boiling water  over six or eight large 
 tomatoes  to remove the skin, and then cut them into a
saucepan. When they begin to boil, pour away a little of the juice; add a small
piece of  butter,   pepper,  
 salt,  and a very little 
 sugar.  Let them cook for about fifteen minutes,
stirring in well the  seasoning.  Some add a few 
 bread or cracker crumbs.  
 
 TOMATOES, WITH MAYONNAISE DRESSING (see 
 Salads,  p. 226). 
 
  STUFFED TOMATOES
BAKED. Choose large  tomatoes.  Do not skin
them, but scoop out a small place at the top, which fill with a 
 stuffing.  The simplest is made of 
 bread-crumbs,  minced  onion,  
 cayenne,  and  salt.  First fry
the  onions  in a little 
 butter,  add the 
 bread-crumbs, moistened with a little 
 water  (or, better,  stock ) and
seasoned with a very little  Cayenne pepper  and enough 
 salt.  Fry them a moment; then fill the cavities,
allowing the  stuffing  to project half an inch above
the  tomato,  and smooth it over the top. Bake. 
  A better  stuffing  is this: Chop very
fine some cold cooked  chicken,  
 lamb,   beef,  or 
 pork.  Each of these may be used, or they may be mixed.
However, a very little  pork  mixed with any kind of 
 meat  makes a pleasant seasoning. Now fry a little
chopped  onion  in  butter,  and,
when just colored, throw in the chopped  meat,  a few 
 bread-crumbs,  very little 
 stock,  and season the whole with 
 salt,   pepper,  and some 
 parsley,  When hot, and well mixed, take it off the
fire; add the  yolk of a raw egg  to bind it together.
Fill the  tomatoes  with this preparation, sprinkle 
 bread-crumbs  over the tops, and bake. The 
 tomatoes  are a pretty garnish around any kind of 
 meat.  If served as a course alone, pour into the
bottom of the dish a  tomato-sauce  flavored with a
little  sherry.   
  
 
  ONIONS. There is no
better manner of cooking  onions  than as follows: Put
them into  salted boiling water,  with a little 
 milk  added, and boil them until tender (no longer).
Then place them in a  baking-pan  with a little 
 pepper,   salt,  and 
 butter  over the top of each, and a very little of the 
 water  in which they were boiled in the bottom of the
pan. Brown them quickly in the oven, and serve very hot. They may be served
alone in a  vegetable-dish,  or as a garnish around beef,
calf's heart, etc. 
 
 
  ONIONS, WITH
CREAM. Boil the  onions,  putting them into
boiling  salted water,  with a little 
 milk  added, until tender; drain, and put them into a 
 stew-pan,  with a  white
sauce made as directed for cauliflowers. Let them simmer a few
moments. Serve with the  sauce  poured over. 
 
 
  STRING-BEANS. String,
and cut each  bean  crosswise into two or three pieces.
Put them, with a little  pork,  into 
 boiling   water,  and when
boiled tender drain them. Put into a  stew-pan  a cupful
of  cream,  a small piece of 
 butter  rubbed in an even tea-spoonful of 
 flour,   pepper,  and 
 salt.  When hot, add the 
 beans (say one pint), and stew them a few moments
before serving. 
 
 STRING-BEANS IN SALAD (see 
 Salads,  page 226). 
 
  LIMA BEANS  ( London Cooking-teacher ). 
 Put a pint of the shelled  beans  into boiling 
 water slightly salted,  adding two or three slices of 
 onion.  When tender, drain them. Put 
 butter  the size of an egg into a heated saucepan, and
when it is hot add an even table-spoonful of minced 
 onions,  which cook well; then put in the 
 beans;  add enough  water  (or,
better,  stock ) to keep them moist. Keep them at the
side of the fire about a quarter of an hour, as it takes them some time to
soak; just before taking them out, add a small handful of minced 
 parsley.  Do not cook them much after adding the 
 parsley,  as the spoils it color. 
  
 
  LIMA BEANS, WITH
CREAM. Put a pint of the shelled  beans  into
just enough boiling  salted water  to cover them, and
boil them tender; then drain off the  water;  add a
cupful of boiling  milk  (or, better, 
 cream ), a little piece of 
 butter,   pepper,  and 
 salt.  Let the  beans  simmer a
minute in the  milk  before serving. 
 
 
  CELERY FRIED. Cut the 
 celery  into pieces three or four inches long; boil
them tender in  salted water;  drain them. Make a batter
in the proportion of two  eggs  to a cupful of 
 rich milk;  mix  flour,  or fine
 bread or cracker crumbs,  enough to give it
consistence; roll the pieces of  celery  in it, and fry
them to a light-brown in hot  lard.  Serve very hot. 
  Celery  can also be cooked as asparagus,
boiled tender, and served with a  white
sauce.   
 
 
  EGG-PLANT. Cut the
plant into slices less than half an inch thick, without paring off the skin;
then sprinkle  pepper  and 
 salt between the parts, and cover with a plate; let
them remain an hour, then dip each slice separately first into beaten 
 egg,  then into fine  bread or cracker
crumbs.  
 Saut&#233;  them to a light-brown in hot 
 lard  or  butter.  
 
 
  CABBAGE TO BOIL. 
 Cabbage  is best boiled and served with 
 corned beef;  otherwise boil a small piece of 
 pork  with it. Always boil with it a piece of a 
 red pepper.  A little bunch of small  red
pepper,  costing five cents, will last a long time for cooking 
 cabbage,  making pickles, etc. 
 Remove the outside damaged leaves, and cut the 
 cabbage  into halves (or, if very large, into
quarters), so as to better cook the inside stalk; put it into the 
 boiling water,  with the  corned
beef  or  pork  and the small 
 red pepper.  It will take the 
 cabbage  from half to three quarters of an hour to be
well cooked. Drain the  cabbage  well, serving it with
the  meat  in the centre of the dish. 
  
 
  CABBAGE STEWED. Shred
two small  cabbages  coarser than for cold slaw; parboil
them with a small piece of  red pepper  added to the 
 boiling water;  then pour off the 
 water,  and add three or four table-spoonfuls of 
 vinegar,  a small piece of 
 butter,  and a large-sized ladleful of 
 stock  from the  stock-pot;  cover
the saucepan closely, and let the  cabbage  simmer
gently for half an hour; season with a little  red
pepper,  if it needs more, and  salt.  
 
 
  TO BOIL CORN ON THE
COB. At the Saratoga Lake House there is a third specialty of good
things. The first is the fried potato, the second is the fresh trout, the third
is boiled  corn,  which is served as a course by itself.
The  corn   Six cobs of corn
served on a round platter.  is boiled in the 
 husk.  The latter imparts sweetness and flavor to the 
 corn,  besides keeping it moist and tender. The
unhusked  corn  is put into  salted boiling
water,  and when done, and well drained, some of the outside 
 husks  are removed, and the 
 corn  is served, with the remaining 
 husks  about it; or, the cobs may be broken from the 
 husks  just before sending them to table, which would
save this trouble afterward. 
 
 
  CORN MOCK OYSTERS. Mix
into a pint of grated green  corn  three table-spoonfuls
of  milk,  one tea-cupful of 
 flour,  a piece of  butter  the
size of a hickory-nut, one tea-spoonful of  salt,  half
a tea-spoonful of  pepper,  and one 
 egg.  Drop it by dessert-spoonfuls into a little hot 
 butter,  and 
 saut&#233;  it on both sides. It resembles, and has
much the flavor of fried  oysters.  It is a good tea or
lunch dish. Serve it hot, on a warm platter. 
 
 
  CORN CUSTARD, TO BE SERVED AS A
VEGETABLE. Cut  corn  from the cob, mix it not
too thin with  milk,  two or
  three beaten  eggs,  
 pepper  and  salt;  bake half an
hour. It is very nice. 
 
 
  CORN PUDDING FOR
TEA. Ingredients: One dozen ears of  sweet
corn,  three  eggs,  one pint of 
 milk,  three table-spoonfuls of 
 sugar,  a small tea-spoonful of 
 salt,  a little  butter,  a
little  flour  if the  corn  is
quite young, with a little less  milk;  if the 
 corn  is older, omit it; grate half of the 
 corn,  and cut the other half. Bake. 
 
 
  GRATED CORN
SAUT&#233;D. Mix grated  corn  with 
 salt  and  pepper;  
 saut&#233;  it in a little hot 
 butter.  
 
 
  TO COOK
CRANBERRIES. Add one tea-cupful of  water  to a
quart of  cranberries,  and put them over the fire.
After cooking ten minutes, add two heaping cupfuls of 
 sugar,  and cook about ten minutes longer, stirring
them often. Pour them into a bowl or mold, and when cold they can be removed as
a jelly. The  berries  will seem very dry before the 
 sugar  is added, but if more 
 water  is used they will not form a jelly. 
 
 
  ARTICHOKES. Cut off the
outside tough leaves, and trim the bottom; throw them into boiling 
 salted water,  with a few drops of 
 vinegar.  When quite done, drain, and serve with 
 drawn butter,  or, what is still better, a 
 sauce Hollandaise.  
 
 
  FRIED APPLES FOR
BREAKFAST.  Sour apples  should be selected: 
 Pippins,   Northern Spies,  etc.
First fry some thin slices of  pork,  then the slices
(without peeling them) of  apples  in the same hot 
 fat.  
 
 
  A RICE DISH ( Risotto &#224; la Milanaise ). Put one ounce of 
 butter  (size of a pigeon's egg) into a 
 stew-pan,  and when hot mix in a quarter of an 
 onion  (half an ounce), minced, and cook until it
assumes a pale-yellow color; put in the washed 
 rice (uncooked), and stir it over the fire until it has
a yellow color also; then add a pint of  stock.  
 White stock  is 
preferable, as it preserves the light color of the 
 rice,  yet any  stock  may be
used. Boil slowly until the  rice  is tender (about half
an hour), when the  stock  will be mostly absorbed. When
about to serve, add one ounce of  grated cheese, 
stirring for a few moments over the fire, without letting it boil; sprinkle a
little  grated cheese  over the top. 
 This dish can be served alone as an 
 entrem&#234;t  or as a vegetable, with any kind of
meat. A  brown sauce  may or may not be served around
it. 
 
 
  ANOTHER RICE DISH. Mix
carefully (not to break the grains) in a pint of boiled 
 rice  (see page 288) a table-spoonful of either minced 
 parsley  or  shives.  Put a
piece of  butter  size of a pigeon's egg into a
saucepan, and let it color a light-brown; mix the 
 rice in the  butter,  and serve
as a vegetable. 
 
 
  MUSHROOMS IN CRUST ( Cro&#251;te aux Champignons ). For the crust, a
little extra  butter  is added to the dough for rolls;
it is made round, three inches in diameter, and two inches high, instead of an
oval roll shape. When freshly baked, a slice is cut from the top of each one,
the crumb is removed, and the shells are buttered and filled with 
 mushrooms,  cooked as for garnishing, and mixed with a 
  Bechamel  sauce.  Finely
minced  parsley  is sprinkled over the tops. They should
be served quite hot. Fresh  mushrooms  are required for
this dish. 
  
  FLAXSEED FOR A
CENTRE-PIECE. Sew coarse  flannel  around a 
 goblet with the stem broken off;  put this shapely dome
upon a saucer of  water;  wet the flannel, and sprinkle
over as much  flaxseed  as will adhere to it. The
flannel will absorb the  water  from the saucer, which
should be often replenished. In about two weeks the flannel will be concealed
in a beautiful verdure, which will vie with any table
ornament.    CASSEROLES. 
 
  Casseroles  are generally made of boiled 
 rice,  or of  mashed boiled
potatoes.  When of  rice,  first cook
thoroughly with  milk,   
 salt,  and a little  butter;  or
they may be cooked in  broth,  with a little 
 ham  added, which is afterward to be taken out. Mash
fine. 
 When of  potatoes,  boil, season, and mash them well.
 Butter  the 
 casserole  mold. First press the 
 rice,  or the 
 potatoes, whichever used, into the figures of the mold;
then fill it. In the centre  bread  may be substituted.
Put the 
 casserole  aside to harden. When quite cold and firm,
carefully unclasp and take off the mold; then, with a small sharp knife and a
spoon, scoop out the inside leaving the 
 casserole  from a half to an inch thick. Just before
serving, with a little  paste-brush,  dipped in the 
 yolk of an egg,  brush the whole surface. This may be
omitted if preferred. Put in a very hot oven a few moments, to heat the 
 rice  or  potato,  and to color
slightly the  egg.  Fill it with vegetables, such as 
 cauliflower,   Lima beans,  
 string-beans,   artichokes,  
 pease,  etc.; or with 
 chicken fricasseed or fried, and served with a 
 cream dressing, or with   Bechamel  sauce,  or 
 en blanquette;  or with any kind of scollops, whether
of  game,   poultry,  
 sweet-breads,   fish,  or 
 shell-fish.  
     SHELLS, OR COQUILLES. 
 A TASTEFUL variety at table is a course of something served in shells ( en coquille ). The natural shells (except oyster-shells)
are not as pretty as silver shells. Plated  silver
scallop-shells  are not expensive, and are always ready. You can
always serve oysters in their shells, by once purchasing fine large ones; then,
by cleaning them carefully every time they are used, they will be ready to be
filled for the next occasion with suitable oysters from the can. Oysters,
lobsters, shrimps, or cold fish of any kind, can be served 
 en coquille  in place of fish. Chicken, or meat of
any kind, should be served as an 
 entr&#233;e.  Salmon, or almost any kind of fish or
shell-fish, can be served 
 en coquille  cold, with 
 Mayonnaise  dressing, as a salad. 
 
  CHICKENS IN
SHELLS. Boil the  chickens  in 
 water  or in  broth;  cut the 
 meat  into little dice; mix them, while hot, with a hot
  Bechamel  sauce,  or
  with a  white sauce  made
with  cream;  sprinkle sifted  bread or
cracker crumbs  over them; brown slightly in a hot oven. Serve
immediately. Sometimes  mushrooms  are mixed with the 
 chicken  dice. 
 
 
  OYSTERS EN
COQUILLE. Prepare  oysters  as described for 
 vols-au-vent;  serve them in the 
 scallop-shells,  with sifted 
 bread-crumbs  (browned) sprinkled over them. Put into
the oven until they are thoroughly hot. 
 
 
  FISH EN COQUILLE. Cut
any good  fish  into little scollops (having boned and
skinned them) half an inch wide; fry them in a   saut&#233;  pan,  with a little 
 butter,   salt,  and a few drops
of  lemon-juice;  then mix them with any of the fish
sauces, and put them into the shells; sprinkle over 
 bread-crumbs  ( saut&#233;d brown in a little 
 butter ), and warm them in the oven. 
 
 
  LOBSTERS OR SHRIMPS EN
COQUILLE. Cut the  lobsters  into scollops or
pieces; mix them with the   Bechamel,  or
cream, sauce;  sprinkle over 
 bread-crumbs, and brown slightly in the oven. Proceed
in the same manner with  shrimps,  picking those that
are mixed with the  sauce,  and reserving some whole, to
decorate the tops. 
 
 
  MUSHROOMS EN
COQUILLE. Cut the  mushrooms,  if they are too
large; throw them for a few minutes into  boiling
water,  then into  cold water  to whiten
them; wipe well, and 
 saut&#233;  them in a saucepan, with a little 
 butter.  When colored, and almost done, sprinkle in a
little  flour  and a little chopped 
 parsley;  when the  flour  is
cooked (which will require but a few moments), pour in, say, a tea-cupful of 
 stock;  let it all simmer for about fifteen minutes.
Just before serving, stir in the beaten  yolk of an
egg,  and a few drops of  lemon-juice.  The 
 sauce  should be rather thick. Fill each shell with
this mixture; sprinkle a few sifted  cracker-crumbs  on
the tops; brown them slightly with a red-hot shovel, or put them into a very
hot oven a few moments just before serving. 
     POTTING. 
 IN England, potting is an every-day affair for the cook. If there be ham,
game, tongue, beef, or fish on the table one day, you are quite sure to see it
potted on the next day at lunch or breakfast. It is a very good way of managing
left-over food, instead of invariably making it into hashes, stews, etc. These
potted meats will keep a long time. They are not good unless thoroughly
pounded, reduced to the smoothest possible paste, and free from any unbroken
fibre. 
 
  POTTED HAM. Mince some
cold cooked  ham,  mixing lean and fat together; pound
in a  mortar,  seasoning at the same time with a little 
 Cayenne pepper,  pounded 
 mace, and  mustard.  Put into a
dish, and place in the oven half an hour; afterward pack it in potting-pots or
little stone jars, which cover with a layer of  clarified
butter  (lukewarm), and tie bladders or paste paper over them. This
is convenient for sandwiches. The  butter  may be used
again for basting meat or for making meat-pies. 
 
 
  POTTED TONGUE.   Warne ). 
 Ingredients: One pound and a half of boiled 
 tongue, six ounces of  butter, 
a little  cayenne,  a small spoonful of pounded 
 mace,  and  cloves  each half a
tea-spoonful. 
 The  tongue  must be unsmoked, boiled, and the skin
taken off. Pound it in the  mortar  as fine as possible,
with the  spices.  When perfectly pounded, and the 
 spices  are well blended with the 
 meat,  press it into small 
 potting-pans;  pour over the 
 butter.  A little  roast
veal, or the  breasts of turkeys, chickens,
etc.,  added to the  tongue,  are an
improvement. 
 
 
  POTTED BEEF. This is
well-cooked  beef  chopped and pounded with a little 
 butter,   pepper,  
 salt,  and  mace.  Manage as for
potted ham. 
 
 
  POTTED BIRDS. Clean 
 pigeons,  or any other birds, and thoroughly season
  them with  mace,  
 allspice,   pepper,  and 
 salt;  then lay the  breasts  in
a pan as close as possible, and put some  butter  over
them; cover the pan with a coarse  flour paste.  Bake
the birds well in the oven, and when cold cut them into small pieces; pound
these to a paste in a  mortar;  pack them closely in a
potting-pot, and cover with  butter.  
 
 
  POTTED FISH. Cut out
the pieces of  fish;  season with 
 pepper,   salt,  and 
 cloves,  if you like; then put them into a dish; cover
closely as for potted birds. Bake one hour. When cold, press them into the pot,
and cover well with  butter,  etc. 
 
 
  POTTED CHICKEN AND TONGUE OR
HAM. Roast the  chicken;  take off all the 
 meat,  separating it from the sinews and skin; chop and
pound thoroughly, with a pound of  tongue  or of 
 ham.  Let the  bones  of the 
 chicken  be boiled down to a glaze; moisten the pounded
 meat  with this glaze; season with 
 salt,   Cayenne pepper,  
 nutmeg,  and a little 
 butter. When well pounded and run through a sieve, put
it into pots, and press it in hard. Now put the pots into a covered 
 stew-pan,  with some  boiling
water  in the bottom; let them be steamed half an hour, then let
them cool. Press the  meat  down again, wipe dry, and
cover with some hot  butter.  It will keep for
months. 
    MACARONI. 
 
  MACARONI, WITH CHEESE  ( London Cooking-school ). 
 Do not wash the  macaroni.  Throw it, broken into
convenient pieces, into  boiling water  which is well
salted; stir or shake it frequently, to prevent its adhering to the bottom of
the  stew-pan.  The moment it is quite tender (no longer),
pour it into a  colander,  and shake off all the 
 water.  In the mean time, melt a lump of 
 butter  the size of a large egg (two ounces) to half a
pound of  macaroni,  in a cup on the fire, and grate a
handful (four ounces) of  cheese.  Now, when the 
 macaroni  is well drained,  place a little of it in the bottom of the dish in which it
is to be served; pour over it some of the  melted
butter,  and sprinkle over that a little  grated
cheese.  Continue alternate layers of the three ingredients until
all the  macaroni  is used, leaving 
 butter  and  cheese  on the top.
Put the dish into the oven, and let it remain three or four minutes, or long
enough for the  macaroni  to soak the 
 butter  and  cheese;  then take
it out; brown the top with a  salamander  or hot 
 kitchen-shovel,  when it will be ready to be served. Aim
to have it done just the moment of serving, otherwise the 
 cheese  will cool and harden. * It
requires about twenty minutes to boil  macaroni.  
 
 
  MACARONI AND WELSH
RARE-BIT. When the  macaroni  is cooked as in
the preceding receipt, arrange it in the centre of a large hot platter; brown
the top with the  salamander;  place around it, as a
garnish, little diamonds of  Welsh rare-bits  (see page
264). This is a nice dish to serve in place of 
 cheese.  
 
 
  MACARONI, WITH
SWEET-BREADS. Parboil,  egg,  
 bread-crumb,  and 
 saut&#233;  the 
 sweet-breads.  Place them in the centre of a large hot
platter; arrange  macaroni (cooked with cheese)  around
it, and brown the top with the  salamander.  
 
 
  MACARONI, WITH
TOMATO-SAUCE.  Sauce. --Put 
 butter  size of an egg into a saucepan; when it is at
the boiling-point, throw in an  onion  (minced), two
sprigs of  parsley  (chopped fine), and a little 
 pepper.  Let it cook five or eight minutes; then throw
in a heaping table-spoonful of  flour  and a little 
 broth  from the  stock-pot  (if
there be no  broth,  use a little  boiling
water ). Stir this well, and let it cook five or eight minutes
longer. Now pour in about a coffee-cupful of 
 tomatoes which have been stewed and strained through a 
 colander or sieve, and stir all together.  The
following note appears at the bottom of page 210 in the original text. 
 *The macaroni may be boiled in stock. 
 Boil half a pound of  macaroni  tender in 
 well-salted boiling water 
or in  stock,  and drain it in the 
 colander.  Place alternate layers of the 
 macaroni  and the  sauce  on a
hot dish, pouring the  sauce  over the top; put the dish
into the oven two or three minutes to soak the 
 sauce. Serve immediately. 
  This  sauce  is simple and very nice. I
change it from the receipt of the  "London
Cooking-teacher,"  which requires a few additions. His 
 sauce  is as follows: Cut a 
 carrot  and an  onion  into
little dice, and prepare a bouquet, 
 i.e.,  tie a little  parsley, 
 thyme,  and a  bay
leaf together. Put into a  stew-pan  some 
 butter  (size of a large egg); when it is hot, throw
into it the vegetables, bouquet, and three or four whole 
 peppers;  let them cook for eight or ten minutes. Then
mix in a heaping table-spoonful of  flour,  and a little
of the   pot-au-feu 
broth; boil this eight or ten minutes longer; then add a cupful of
cooked and strained tomatoes.  Stir all
together.  
 
 
  MACARONI AU GRATIN  ( New York Cooking-school ). 
 Ingredients: Half a pound of  macaroni,  four ounces
of  cheese,  two ounces of 
 butter,  three-quarters of a cupful of 
  Bechamel  sauce.  
 Boil the  macaroni  as described in "macaroni with
cheese." When well drained, pour over it nearly all of the 
 sauce  and the  grated
cheese; toss it in the saucepan, mixing it well together without
breaking the  macaroni;  put it into a   gratin  dish;  pour first the remainder of the 
 sauce  over the top, then the remainder of the 
 cheese,  and over this sprinkle a table-spoonful of 
 cracker-dust  and dots of 
 butter.  Put it into a very hot oven ten minutes,
coloring the top. 
 
 
  CRACKERS, WITH
CHEESE. Soak in  boiling water  round 
 crackers  split in two, three inches in diameter and
three-quarters of an inch high (I do not know the name). Take them out
carefully, so as not to break them; make layers of these slices in a little 
  gratin  dish  or a deep 
 baking-dish,  each slice buttered, spread with a little 
 made mustard,  and sprinkled with 
 pepper,   salt,  and plenty of 
 grated cheese.  When all is prepared, bake them in a
hot oven for ten minutes. 
   
  EGGS. 
 
  BOILED EGGS should all
be placed in a wire-basket, and put into  boiling
water.  Boil them two minutes and three-quarters precisely. 
 Lord Chesterfield said it was only necessary for him to see a person at
table to tell if he were a gentleman. He must have had a fine opportunity for
observation when boiled  eggs  were served. It seems
nonsense (and it is nonsense) when I say that the fashionable world abroad and
their imitators here consider it insufferably 
 gauche  to serve a boiled 
 egg  but in one stereotyped way, 
 i.e.,  in the smallest of 
 egg-cups.  The top of the  egg  is
cut off with a knife, and with a little  egg-spoon, dipped
into  salt  when necessary, the 
 egg  is eaten from the shell. I really can not see that
it matters much whether an  egg  is eaten from an 
 egg-glass,  or in the little 
 egg-cups  from the shell, unless one prefers to be in the
fashion, when it requires no more trouble. 
 
 
  POACHED EGGS. 
 Salt  the  water  well; when it
is 
 simmering,  drop lightly each broken 
 egg  from a saucer into it. Cook one 
 egg  at a time, throwing carefully with a spoon the 
 water  from the side over the 
 egg,  to whiten the top. When cooked just enough (do
not let it get too hard), take out the  egg  with a 
 perforated ladle,  trim off the ragged pieces, and slip
it on a small, thin piece of hot  buttered toast,  cut
neatly into squares. When all are cooked, and placed on their separate pieces
of  toast,  sprinkle a little 
 pepper  and  salt  over each
one. 
 Some put into the  boiling water  
 muffin-rings,  in which the 
 eggs are cooked, to give them an even shape; they
present a better appearance, however, cooked in the 
 egg-poacher,  illustrated among the cooking utensils.
Poached  eggs  are nice introduced into a beef soup--one
 egg  for each person at table; they are also nice
served on thin, diamond-shaped slices of broiled  ham 
instead of  toast.  
  Delmonico  serves poached 
 eggs  on  toast,  with 
 sorrel  sprinkled over the tops. 
  
 
  POACHED EGGS ON ANCHOVY
TOAST. This is a favorite dish abroad. It is generally a supper-dish,
yet can be served at breakfast, lunch, and even as a course for dinner. The
dish consists simply of thin pieces of  toast,  cut of
equal size, buttered, and spread with a little  anchovy
paste,  and a poached  egg  placed on each
piece.  Anchovy paste  can be purchased in little jars
at all the larger groceries. 
 
 
  STUFFED EGGS ( for Lunch ). Boil the 
 eggs  hard; cut them in two lengthwise, and remove the 
 yolks,  which chop, adding to them some cooked 
 chicken,   lamb,  
 veal,  or  pickled
tongue chopped fine; season the mixture, and add enough 
 gravy,  or the  raw yolk of
egg,  to bind them; stuff the cavities, smooth them, and press the
two halves together; roll them in beaten  egg  and 
 bread-crumbs  twice. When just ready to serve, dip them
in a wire-basket into boiling  lard;  and when they have
taken a delicate color, drain. Serve on a napkin, and garnish with 
 parsley  or any kind of 
 leaves,  or serve with a 
 tomato-sauce.  
 
 
  STUFFED EGGS  ( French Cook ). 
 Boil the  eggs  hard, and cut them in two; take out
carefully the  yolks,  which mash well, adding a little
finely minced  onion,  chopped 
 parsley,   pepper,  and 
 salt.  Mash also double the quantity of 
 bread,  which has been soaked in 
 milk;  mix  bread,  
 yolks,  etc., together; then bind them with a little 
 raw yolk of egg;  taste to see if they are properly
seasoned. Stuff the  eggs  with the mixture, so that
each half has the appearance of containing a whole round 
 yolk;  smooth the remainder of the mixture on the
bottom of a  pie-pan;  arrange the halves symmetrically in
this bed; brown a little in the oven. 
 
 
  STUFFED EGGS, WITH
CHEESE. Ingredients: Six  eggs,  one ounce of 
 cheese,  two ounces of 
 butter, one heaping tea-spoonful of 
 flour,  a little  cayenne,  one
table-spoonful of  vinegar,  one and a half cupfuls of 
 milk.  
 Put the  eggs  on the fire in  cold
water,  and when they come  to a boil
set them at the side of the fire to simmer seven minutes; then put them into 
 cold water.  When cold, remove the shells; cut them in
half lengthwise with a sharp knife, taking care not to tear the 
 whites;  mash the  yolks,  to
which add the  grated cheese,  
 vinegar,   cayenne.  At the
cooking-school was added also a tea-spoonful of  olive
oil.  Make a  roux  by putting
the  butter  into a little saucepan on the fire, and
when it bubbles mix in the  flour.  In another small
saucepan have a wine-glassful of  milk  boiling, to
which add enough of the 
 roux  to thicken it, and then add the 
 yolks,  and mix all together until quite hot. Now to
the remaining 
 roux  add a cupful of 
 milk, and stir until quite smooth for a sauce; fill the
cavities of the  whites of the eggs  with the 
 yolk  preparation, rounding the tops to represent whole
 yolks;  arrange them in a circle on a warm platter, and
pour the  white sauce  in the centre. 
   OMELETS. 
 Nothing is more simple than to make an omelet, yet very few can make one.
The eggs stick to the pan, or they are overdone, and tough. 
 Senator Riddle, of Delaware, a decided epicure, took much pleasure in his
superior knowledge on this important subject. Once when breakfasting with Mrs.
Crittenden, of Kentucky, a piece of omelet of doubtful appearance was presented
to him. "Before we proceed with our breakfast," said he, "let me teach you a
valuable accomplishment." They repaired at once to the kitchen range, where the
senator demonstrated at once his qualifications as a first-class cook. My own
first lesson was from Mr. Riddle, so of course I have the correct 
 modus operandi;  afterward in London, however, I
heard a lecture upon omelets from a cooking professor, and was astonished at
the multiplicity of dishes which could be made from this simple preparation;
not only breakfast dishes, but also the variety of sweet omelet for
dessert. 
 
  PLAIN OMELET. The fire
should be quite hot. All cookery-books especially expatiate on the necessity of
a pan to be used omelets alone.  
 Any clean, smooth iron  spider,  or   saut&#233;  pan,  is a good enough 
 omelet-pan.  Put the pan on the fire to become heated;
break the  eggs  into a kitchen basin; sprinkle over
them  pepper  and  salt,  and
give them twelve vigorous beats with a spoon. This is enough to break all the 
 yolks,  and twelve beats was Mr. Riddle's rule. Now put
 butter  the size of an egg (for five 
 eggs ) in the heated pan; turn it around so that it
will moisten all the bottom of the pan. When it is well melted, and 
 begins to boil,  pour in the 
 eggs.  Holding the handle of the 
 omelet-pan  in the left hand, carefully and lightly with
a spoon draw up the whitened  egg  from the bottom, so
that all the  eggs  may be equally cooked, or whitened
to a soft, creamy substance. Now, still with the left hand, shake the pan
forward and backward, which will disengage the 
 eggs from the bottom; then shaking again the omelet a
little one side, turn with a spoon half of one side over the other; and
allowing it to remain it all the time, toss it over the other; and allowing it
to remain a moment to harden a little at the bottom, gently shaking it all the
time, toss it over on to a warm platter held in the right hand. A little
practice makes one quite dexterous in placing the omelet in the centre of the
platter, and turning it over as it is tossed from the 
 omelet-pan.  
 However, if one is unsuccessful in the tossing operation, which is the
correct thing, according to the cooking professor, the omelet can be lifted to
the platter with a  pancake-turner.  It should be creamy
and light in the centre, and more firm on the outside. 
 I will specify several different omelets. A variety of others may be made in

the same way, by adding boiled  tongue  cut into dice,
sliced  truffles,  cooked and sliced 
 kidneys  with the  gravy  poured
around, etc., etc. 
 
 
  OMELET, WITH
TOMATOES. Make the  plain omelet;  and just
before turning one half over the other, place in the centre three or four whole
 tomatoes  which have been boiled a few minutes
previously and seasoned. When the omelet is turned, of course the 
 tomatoes  will be quite enveloped. Serve with 
 tomato-sauce  (see page 125) poured around it. 
   
 
  OMELET WITH GREEN
PEASE is managed as  omelet  with tomatoes,
putting several spoonfuls of cooked  green pease  in the
centre before the omelet is lapped, then serving with a neat row of 
 pease  (without juice) around it. 
 
 
  OMELET, WITH HAM. Throw
into the  omelet-pan  fine-cut shreds of tender 
 ham  with the  butter.  When the
 ham  has cooked a moment, throw in the 
 eggs,  and proceed as for plain omelet. A little
chopped  parsley  beaten with the 
 eggs  will improve it. The dish may be garnished with
thin diamonds of  ham  around the omelet. 
 
 
  OMELET, WITH FINE
HERBS. Before beating the  eggs,  add with the 
 pepper  and  salt  some chopped 
 parsley  and  shives;  cook a
moment in the  butter  some thin shreds of 
 onion,  then pour in the 
 eggs, and proceed as for a plain omelet. The shives may
be omitted. 
 
 
  OMELET, WITH
MUSHROOMS. Boil the  mushrooms  in a little 
 water,  or  stock,  to which are
added  pepper,   salt,  a few
drops of  lemon-juice,  and, when done a little 
 flour,  to thicken it slightly. Inclose some 
 mushrooms  in the  omelet  in
the manner explained for tomatoes; pour the remainder of the 
 mushrooms  around the omelet, with a little 
 juice.  
 
 
  OMELET, WITH
SHRIMPS. Inclose some picked  shrimps  in the
centre of the  omelet.  Garnish the omelet with shrimps
unpicked. 
 
 
  OMELET, WITH
OYSTERS. Scald the  oysters  in their own 
 liquor;  when just about to boil, plump them by
throwing them into  cold water;  then beard them; beat
them into the  eggs  before they are cooked leaving a
few  oysters  for garnishing the plate. 
 
 
  OMELET, WITH CHEESE, OR
FONDUE.  Brillat Savarin  says: "Take the
same number of  eggs  guests at table. Take then a piece of good 
 fromage de Gruy&#232;re,  weighing
about one-third, and a piece of  butter  one-sixth this
weight. Break up and beat your  eggs  well in a
saucepan; then add your  cheese  and 
 butter  grated. Put your saucepan on the fire, and stir
with a wooden spoon until the substance is thick and soft; put in a little 
 salt,  according to the age of the 
 cheese,  and a good sprinkling of 
 pepper,  which is one of the positive characteristics
of this ancient dish. Serve up on a warm dish. Get some of your best 
 wine  from the cellar, which pass around briskly, and
you will see wonders." 
  Gruy&#232;re cheese  is considered superior to
other cheeses in this omelet; yet any kind of  American
cheese,  if highly flavored, is most delicious also, and, I think,
quite as good as the Gruy&#232;re. I would use fresh 
 cheese,  and chop it fine, rather than grate it, and
also would not add so much  butter.  We will say, then,
to six  eggs  add three-quarters of a cupful, or two
ounces, of  cheese  chopped fine, a piece of 
 butter  the size of a small egg, 
 salt,  and  pepper.  Proceed as
for plain omelet. 
 
 
  OMELET, WITH CHEESE AND
MACARONI. Add to the above receipt about two or three cupfuls of 
 macaroni  which has been boiled in  salted
water  and drained, and is still hot. 
 
 
  FRIED OMELET SOUFFL&#233;
( for Breakfast ). Beat the 
 whites and yolks of four eggs  separately, and then,
adding  pepper  and  salt,  put
the  whites  over the  yolks, 
and mix them together carefully. Put  butter  the size
of a small egg into an  omelet-pan,  and when it has
covered the bottom of the pan and is bubbling turn in the 
 eggs;  with a spoon lift them from the bottom until all
is slightly cooked, or at least well heated; then gather up the sides to make
it into omelet form; shake the pan to disengage the omelet, and at the same
time to color it slightly at the bottom; turn this over into the centre of a
warm platter, so that the colored part be on top. 
 
 
  SWEET OMELET ( for Dessert ). Add a little 
 sugar  to the  eggs,  instead of
 pepper  and  salt; 
  make it then as a plain omelet, inclosing in the
centre any kind of  preserves,  
 marmalade,  or  jam;  when it is
turned on to the dish, sprinkle  sugar  over the
top. 
 
 
  OMELET, WITH RUM. This
is a most delicious omelet. Add a little  sugar  to
the  A flaming omelette on a round
platter.   eggs,  say a
sherry glassful to six  eggs  and make the omelet as a
plain omelet. When turned on the dish, sprinkle a little handful of 
 sugar  over the top, and pour over five or six
table-spoonfuls of  rum.  Set it on fire, and serve it
at the table burning. 
 
 
  OMELET
SOUFFL&#233;. Although it is a simple thing to make an omelet 
 souffl&#233;,  and although in France there is not
one cook in a score who can not make a delicious one for any and every
occasion, I would not advise a careless cook to ever attempt it. The
ingredients are: Six  whites  and three 
 yolks of eggs,  three ounces of  pulverized
sugar  (three table-spoonfuls), and a flavoring of 
 vanilla  or  lemon.  First, beat
the  yolks  and  sugar  to a
light cream, and add a few drops of  flavoring;  then
beat the  whites  to the stiffest possible froth. Have
the  yolks  in a rather deep  kitchen
bowl;  turn  whites  over them, and with a
spoon giving it a rotary motion, cut the two, mixing them carefully together.
Turn this on to a  baking-dish,  either of earthenware or
tin, with sides two or three inches high and slightly buttered. Smooth over the
top, sprinkle over  sugar,  and put it into a moderate
oven. If it has to be turned or moved in the oven, do it as gently as possible.
When it has risen well, and is of a fine yellow color, it is ready to be
served. It should be served at once, or it will fall. 
 Omelet 
 souffl&#233;  was especially nice at the
Caf&#233; Vienna in Paris. This is their cook's receipt: "For one portion,"
said   
"use the  whites of three eggs; beat them well; add one
table-spoonful  of 
 marmalade  cut into fine pieces, or little pieces of
fresh  peaches;  mix with  powdered
sugar.  Bake it on a dish rubbed with 
 butter  in a rather quick oven." It seemed as if this
was too simple a receipt to be so nice. In another place was a layer of 
 marmalade  on the bottom of the dish, with a 
 souffl&#233;  according to the first receipt,
flavored with  vanilla,  banked over it. 
 
 
  OMELET, WITH ASPARAGUS POINTS,
CAULIFLOWERS, OR OTHER VEGETABLES. Cook the 
 vegetables  first until they are done, as they will not
have time to cook with the  eggs.  Make them in the same
manner described for tomatoes; or the vegetables may be beaten with the 
 eggs.  Make a border around the omelet of the
vegetables used. 
     SALADS. 
 In an English book is told a story of a famous French salad-dresser who
began very poor, and made a fortune by dressing salad for dinners in London. He
would go from one place to another in his carriage, with a liveried servant,
and his mahogony case. This case contained all the necessaries for his
business, such as differently perfumed vinegars, oils with or without the taste
of fruit, soy, caviar, truffles, anchovies, catchup, gravy, some yolks of eggs,
etc. I confess to lively curiosity as to how these perfumed and scientific
mixtures would taste; however, we will be satisfied with the hundred and one
ways of arranging our simple and delicious salads, within the comprehension of
all. 
 A French man thinks he can not eat his dinner without his salad. It would be
well if every one had the same appreciation of this most wholesome, refreshing,
and at the same time most economical dish. It is an accomplishment to know how
to dress a salad well, which is especially prized by the fashionable world. The
materials used for salads are generally those shown in the list on the
following page:    Lettuce,  Celery,  Endive,  Garden-cress,  Sorrel,  Onions,  Garlic,  Radishes,  Beet-root,  Pepper-grass,  Cold
boiled
potatoes,  Cabbage,  Cives,  Tarragon,  Nasturtium
blossoms;  
 or salads of mixed vegetables ( salades en
mac&#233;doine ), selected from this list of vegetables:   Cold boiled
potatoes,  String-beans,  Navy-beans,  Lima
beans,  Beet-root,  Olives,  Tomatoes,  Pease,  Cauliflower,  Asparagus-tops,  Cucumbers,  Carrots,  Truffles,  Turnips.  
 Salads are also made of cold boiled fowls or fish, as follows:   Chickens,  Lobster,  Salmon,  Prawns,  Shrimps,  Sardines.  
 There are two kinds of dressing which are the best and oftenest used: the 
 Mayonnaise  and the French dressing. Epicures prefer
the simple French dressing for salads served without fish or fowl. For chicken
and fish salads, and some vegetables, as tomatoes and cauliflowers, they use
the 
 Mayonnaise  sauce. This arrangement of dressing is
almost universal in London and Paris. In America we use the 
 Mayonnaise  for all salads. I prefer the foreign
custom. The simple salad with the French dressing is, after all, the most
refreshing and satisfactory, if one has a heavy dinner served before it. The
receipts are as follows: 
 
  MAYONNAISE SAUCE. Put
the uncooked  yolk of an egg  into a cold bowl; beat it
well with a silver fork; then add two salt-spoonfuls of 
 salt,  and one salt-spoonful of  mustard
powder;  work them well a minute before adding the 
 oil;  then mix in a little good 
 oil,  which must be poured in very slowly (a few drops
at a time) at first, alternated occasionally with a few drops in 
 vinegar.  In proportion as the 
 oil  is used, the sauce should gain consistency. When
it begins to have the appearance of jelly, alternate a few drops of 
 lemon-juice  with the  oil. When
the  egg  has absorbed a gill of 
 oil,  finish the sauce by adding a very little pinch of
   Cayenne pepper  and one
and a half tea-spoonfuls of good  vinegar;  taste it to
see that there are  salt,  
 mustard,   cayenne,  and 
 vinegar  enough. If not, add more very carefully. These
proportions will suit most tastes; yet some like more 
 mustard  and more  oil.  Be
cautious not to use too much  cayenne.  
 By beating the  egg  a minute before adding the 
 oil,  there is little danger of the sauce curdling; yet
if, by adding too much  oil  at first, it should
possibly curdle, immediately interrupt the operation. Put the  yolks
of one or two eggs  on another plate; beat them well, and add the
curdled 
 Mayonnaise  by degrees, and finish by adding more 
 oil,   lemon-juice,  
 vinegar,   salt,  and 
 cayenne  according to taste. If 
 lemons  are not at hand, many use 
 vinegar  instead. 
  Delmonico  uses four  yolks of
eggs  for two quart-bottles of  oil.  It is
only necessity, then, to use one  yolk  for a pint of 
 oil,  the  egg  only being a
foundation for the sauce. It is easier, however, to begin with more 
 yolks:  many use three of them for a gill of 
 oil.  The  sauce  will not
curdle so easily if the few drops of  vinegar  are used
at first, after a very little  oil  is used. It keeps
perfectly well by putting it into a  glass preserve or pickle
bottle,  with a ground-glass stopper. It is well to have enough made
to last a week at least. The opportunity of making it may be taken, and adding
it to the 
 Mayonnaise  bottle, when there are extra 
 yolks  left, after the whites of the eggs are used for
other purposes, such as white cake, 
 corn-starch pudding, etc. 
 It requires about a quarter of an hour to make this sauce. In summer, the
process of making it is greatly facilitated by placing the 
 eggs  and  oil  in the 
 ice-chest  half an hour before using them. Sometimes, for
the sake of a change, the 
 Mayonnaise  sauce is made green. It is then
called 
 
 
  SAUCE &#224; LA
RAVINGOTE. Here is  Car&#234;me's
receipt for it: "Take a good handful of 
 chervil,  together with some 
 tarragon,  and a few  cives. 
When these  herbs  have been washed, put them into 
 boiling water  for five or six minutes, with a little 
 salt;  after which, cool, drain, and squeeze them dry.
Pound them well, adding a spoonful  of 
  Mayonnaise  sauce;  then pass
the whole through a sieve, and mix with the   Mayonnaise sauce.  If you find it pale a green,
add a little  spinach  prepared in the same way." 
 It is more convenient and simple to add boiled and mashed  green
pease  to the sauce for coloring. The green 
 Mayonnaise  is sometimes used to spread over a cold
boiled fish (marinated). The dish is garnished with lettuce heads. Sometimes,
for lobster or fish salads, the 
 Mayonnaise  sauce is prepared red. 
 
 
  RED MAYONNAISE
SAUCE. Pound some  lobster coral,  pass it
through a sieve, and mix it with the   Mayonnaise  sauce.  
 
 
  FRENCH DRESSING. Ingredients: One
table-spoonful of  vinegar,  three table-spoonfuls of 
 olive-oil,  one salt-spoonful of 
 pepper,  one salt-spoonful of 
 salt,  one even tea-spoonful of 
 onion  scraped fine. Many use  tarragon
vinegar,  
 i.e.,   vinegar  in which 
 tarragon  has been soaked. 
 Pour the  oil,  mixed with the 
 pepper  and  salt,  over the
salad; mix them together; then add the  vinegar  and mix
again.  Chaptal  says: "It results, from this process,
that there can never be too much  vinegar:  from the
specific gravity of the  vinegar  compared with the 
 oil,  what is more than needful will fall to the bottom
of the salad-bowl. The  salt  should not be dissolved in
the  vinegar,  but in the 
 oil, by which means it is more equally distributed
through the salad." 
 This is the usual mode of mixing the salad; but I prefer to mix the 
 pepper  and  salt,  then add the
 oil  and  onion,  and then the 
 vinegar;  and, when well mingled, to pour the mixture
over the salad, or place the salad over it, and mix all together. It seems to
me to be more evenly distributed in this manner. 
 Many different combinations can be made to suit the fancy, from the list of
salad materials. I will give certain combinations oftenest seen. It must be
remembered that salad is never good unless perfectly fresh. It should not be
mixed, or brought into the dining-room, until the moment when it is to be
eaten. 
 When preparing  lettuce  salad, choose the crisp,
tender, centre leaves of  head lettuce.  The kind seen
in England and France,  called 
 romaine,  is now much used in New York;
it is very crisp and tender. The seeds of this 
 lettuce can be obtained in New York. In the East, 
 tarragon, and  endive  also, are
largely produced, and used to imitate these foreign salads. The 
 tarragon leaves  are chopped fine, and mixed in the 
 French dressing (without onion)  to use with 
 lettuce.  The taste for
 tarragon  is generally an acquired one: I prefer the 
 tarragon vinegar  to the fresh leaves, as it has only a
slight flavor of the plant. 
   COMBINATIONS. 
 
 1.   LETTUCE   ( French Cook ). 
 Rub  garlic  in the dish in which 
 lettuce,  with  French dressing (without
onion),  is to be served. Leave no pieces of the 
 garlic --merely rubbing the dish will give flavor
enough. The French often use  garlic  in salads. I would
advise, however, the use of the simple  French dressing with
onion  to be mixed with the  lettuce
leaves,  and dispense with the garlic. Use the plain or the 
 tarragon vinegar.   Nasturtium
blossoms  have a most pleasant piquant flavor, and make a beautiful
garnish for a salad. 
 2. 
   Lettuce,  with 
 water-cresses  or 
 pepper-grass mixed, and small 
 radishes  placed around for a garnish.
 French or 
 Mayonnaise  dressing.   
 3. 
   Lettuce,  with 
 cives  mixed, and  olives placed
around for garnish.  French dressing.   
 4. 
   Lettuce,  with 
 celery  mixed (most excellent). Cut the 
 celery  into pieces, an inch and a half long; then
slice these lengthwise into four or five pieces. Mix with 
 lettuce.   French
dressing.   
 5. 
   Lettuce  and 
 sorrel  mixed.  French
dressing.   
 6. 
   Lettuce,  with 
 anchovies  (cut into thin strips as 
 celery ) and  chopped 
 cives.  To vary this dish, 
 prawns  and  shrimps  are used
for a garnish; or the  anchovies  may be left out. 
 French dressing.   
 7. 
   Endive  alone.  French
dressing.   
 8. 
   Endive,  mixed with 
 water-cress.   French
dressing.   
 9. 
   Endive,  with 
 celery,   beets,  and 
 hard-boiled eggs  in slices.  French
dressing.  Endive in centre, row of 
 eggs around, then row of 
 beets,  then an edge of fringed 
 celery.   
 10. 
   Water-cress  is good mixed with cold
boiled  beets.  Cut the 
 beets into little dice; garnish with 
 olives.   French
dressing.   
 11. 
   Lettuce  and dice of cold boiled 
 potatoes,  and cold boiled 
 beets.   Potatoes  piled in the
centre,  beets  next, and 
 lettuce  around the edge of the dish. 
 French dressing.   
  
 
  12. POTATO SALAD. New
small  onions  sliced, mixed with cold boiled 
 potatoes  cut into dice.  French
dressing.  This potato salad is very nice. 
  Another way is to rub the dish with 
 garlic  in which the salad is made. Mix chopped 
 parsley  with the  potatoes  cut
into dice.  French dressing.   
 13. 	
 Sliced  cucumbers,  and sliced  new
onions.   French dressing.  
 14. 
  Cabbage  alone, with  French or 
 Mayonnaise  dressing.  
 
 
  15. COLD SLAW. Cut the 
 cabbage  not too fine; sprinkle 
 pepper  and  salt  over it, and
set it crisp.  
  Dressing. --Beat the  yolks of three
eggs,  or the whole of two  eggs,  with five
table-spoonfuls of good strong  vinegar,  two heaping
tea-spoonfuls of  sugar  (three, if the 
 vinegar  is very strong), half a tea-spoonful of 
 made mustard,  and  butter  size
of an almond. Put these ingredients into a tin cup, and stir them over the fire
until they are about to boil, or until they become a smooth paste. Put the
mixture one side to become cold, and to remain until just before it is wanted
at table; then mix it well with the cold  cabbage,  and
garnish the top with slices of  hard-boiled egg.  
 Cold slaw is especially nice served with fried oysters. Place it in the
centre of the warm platter on a folded napkin (a too warm platter would injure
it), then make a circle of  fried oysters  around it.
This makes a nice course for dinner. 
 
 The salads of vegetables are generally better with the French dressing. They
present a better appearance by cutting them with a small 
 vegetable-cutter.  
 
  SALAD OF VEGETABLES ( Salade de L&#233;gumes ). Mix cold boiled 
 pease,   string-beans,  pieces
of  cauliflower,  
 asparagus-tops,  or almost any one of the small
vegetables; do not cut the larger ones too fine.  French
dressing.  
 17. 
  Cold boiled  potatoes,   Lima
beans,   beets,  
 carrots.   French
dressing.   
 18. 
  Cold baked  navy beans,  with 
  Mayonnaise sauce.   
 
 
  19. MAYONNAISE OF
CAULIFLOWER. Place some  cauliflowers  into
just enough  boiling water  to cover them; add a little 
 salt  and  butter  to the 
 water.  When cooked, let them become cold; then season
them with a marinade of a little  salt  and 
 pepper,  three spoonfuls of 
 vinegar,  and one spoonful of 
 oil.  Let them then remain for an hour. When ready to
serve, pile them on the dish to a point; then mask them with a 
  Mayonnaise  sauce.  
 
  Car&#234;me  finishes this dish by placing around
it a border of 
 cro&#251;tons  of  aspic
jelly.  I can not think that  aspic jelly is
good enough to pay for the trouble of making it, and I am a particular advocate
for dishes that 
 taste  well.
 Gouff&#233; arranges around the dish a border of 
 carrots,   beets,  
 turnips,  or any  green
vegetables  which have been marinated. 
 
 
  20. TOMATOES &#224; LA
MAYONNAISE. This is a truly delicious dish; it would, in fact, be good
every day during the  tomato  season. 
 Select large fine  tomatoes  and place them in the 
 ice-chest;  the colder they are, the better, if not
frozen; skin them without  Eight slices of tomato
served in a ring on a round platter.  the use of hot
water, and slice them, still retaining the form of the whole 
 tomato.  Arrange them in uniform order on a dish, with
a spoonful of   Mayonnaise sauce  thick as a jelly on the top
of each  tomato.  Garnish the dish with 
 leaves  of any kind.  Parsley is
very pretty. 
 Some marinate the  tomato  slices, 
 i.e.,  dip them into a mixture of three spoonfuls of 
 vinegar,  to one spoonful of 
 oil,   pepper,  and 
 salt;  and then, after draining well, mix them in the 
  Mayonnaise  sauce.  
 
 
  STRING-BEANS IN SALAD  ( French Cook ). 
 String the  beans  and boil them whole; when boiled
tender, and they have become cold, slice them lengthwise, cutting each 
 bean  into four long slices; place them neatly, the
slices all lying in one direction,  An illustration of
string beans served on a long oval
platter.  crosswise on a platter. Season them an
hour or two before serving, with a marinade of a little 
 pepper,   salt,  and three
spoonfuls of  vinegar  to one spoonful of 
 oil.  Just before serving, drain from them any drops
that may have collected,  and carefully mix them
with a  French dressing.  This makes a delicious
salad. 
 
 
  CHICKEN SALAD. Boil a
young tender  chicken,  and when cold separate the meat
from the bones; cut it into little square blocks or dice; do not mince it. Cut
white tender stalks of  celery  into about three
quarter-inch lengths, saving the outside green stalks for soups; mix the 
 chicken  and  celery  together;
and then stir well into them a mixture in the proportion of three
table-spoonfuls of  vinegar  to one table-spoonful of 
 oil,  with  pepper,  
 salt,  and a little  mustard  to
taste. Put this aside for an hour or two, or until just before
serving;  A chicken salad garnished with greens and
slices of hard-boiled eggs served on a round
platter.  this is called marinating the 
 chicken;  it will absorb the 
 vinegar,  etc. When about to serve, mix the 
 celery  and  chicken  with a 
  Mayonnaise  sauce,  leaving a
portion of the  sauce  to mask the top. Reserve several
fresh ends or leaves of  celery  with which to garnish
the dish. Stick a little bouquet of these tops in the centre of the salad, then
a row of them around it. From the centre to each of the four sides sprinkle
rows of  capers.  Sometimes slices or little cut
diamonds of  hard-boiled eggs  are used for
garnishing. 
  Chicken salad is often made with 
 lettuce instead of celery. Marinate the 
 chicken  alone; add it to the small tender leaves
(uncut) of the  lettuce  the last moment before serving;
then pour   Mayonnaise 
dressing  over the top. Garnish with little centre-heads of 
 lettuce,   capers,  cold chopped
red  beets  if you choose, or sliced 
 hard-boiled eggs.  Sometimes little strips of 
 anchovy are added for a garnish. When on the table it
should all be mixed together. Many may profit by this receipt for chicken
salad; for it is astonishing how few understand making so common a dish. It is
generally minced, and mixed with  hard-boiled eggs, 
etc., for a dressing.  
  
 
  CHICKEN SALAD  ( Car&#234;me's Receipt ). 
 Take some tender  pullets;  fry them in the 
  saut&#233;  pan,  or roast
them; when cold, cut them up, skinning and trimming them neatly. Put the pieces
into a  tureen,  with some  salt,  
 pepper,   oil,  
 vinegar,  some sprigs of 
 parsley,  and an  onion  cut
into slices; mix all well together; cover, and let stand for some hours; then,
just before serving, drain the salad, taking care to remove all bits of 
 onion,  etc., and place it tastefully on 
 lettuce-leaves,  with the  hearts of the
lettuce  on top, and cover with a   mayonnaise  dressing.  
 
 
  MAYONNAISE OF
SALMON. Remove the skin and bones from a piece of 
 salmon,  boiled and cooled, and cut it into pieces two
inches long. Marinate them, 
 i.e.,  place them in a dish, and season them with 
 salt,   pepper,  a little 
 oil,  and, in this case, plenty of 
 vinegar,  some  parsley,  and a
little  onion  cut up; then cover, and let them stand
two or three hours. In the mean time, cut up some  hard-boiled
eggs  into four or eight pieces for a border. Cover the bottom of
the salad-dish with  lettuce leaves,  seasoned with a 
 French dressing;  place your 
 salmon  slices in a ring on the 
 lettuce,  pouring in the centre a   Mayonnaise  sauce.  Sprinkle 
 capers  over the whole. 
  Other kinds of  fish,  such as 
  pike,
blue-fish, and flounders,   make very good salads, arranged in
the same way.   Car&#234;me, Gouff&#233;, and
Francatelli  fry their  fish  and fowl in a
  saut&#233;  pan,  instead of
boiling them. If you do not make use of remnants of 
 salmon  left from the table, you can form better-shaped
slices by cutting the  fish  into little shapes before
it is boiled. If you wish to boil them, immerse them in  warm
water  (with  vinegar  and 
 salt  added) in a wire basket, or 
 drainer.  
 
 
  SALAD &#224; LA
FILLEY. Ingredients:  Cottage cheese,  
 hard-boiled eggs,   cives.  
 Arrange cives on a salad-dish in such a manner as to form a nest; put into
the nest whole  hard-boiled eggs  (shelled), one for
each person at table, alternated with little round cakes of
   A Salad &#224; la
Filley, with the eggs and cottage cheese served on a bed of chives in the
center of a round platter. The dish is garnished with a ring of hard-boiled
eggs cut in half to display the yolk.  
 cottage cheese.  In serving, place upon each plate an 
 egg,  a cake of  cottage
cheese,  and some of the cives. Each person cuts all together, and
puts on the French dressing of  oil,  
 vinegar,   pepper  and 
 salt.  
    FRITTERS. 
 
  FRENCH FRITTER BATTER  ( French Cook ), No. 1. 
 PUT a heaping cupful of  flour  into a bowl; add two 
 yolks of eggs,  a table-spoonful of  olive
oil,  which is better than  melted
butter, and one or two table-spoonfuls of 
 brandy,   wine,  or 
 lemon-juice.  *  Stir it well,
adding, little by little,  water  enough to give it the
thickness of ordinary batter. This may be used at once; but it is better to put
it away for a day, or even for a week. At the moment of cooking, stir in well
the  whites of two eggs  beaten to a very stiff
froth. 
 
 
  FRITTER BATTER (No.
2). Ingredients: One pint of  milk,  three 
 eggs,  a little  salt,  one pint
of  flour.  It can be made with or without a
tea-spoonful of  baking-powder.  
 Beat the  egg  well; add part of the 
 milk  and  salt,  then the 
 flour  and  milk  alternately,
beating it all quickly, and cooking it immediately, dropping it by the spoonful
into boiling-hot  lard.  The fritters are improved by
using  prepared flour,  Horsford's or Hecker's being
especially good. 
 
 
  PINE APPLE, APPLE PRESERVE, OR
PEACH FRITTERS. Add a pint or less of any of these 
 fruits,  cut into small pieces, to either of the above
receipts. When done, sprinkle  sugar  over the tops. 
 
 *The brandy, wine, or lemon-juice may be omitted if
preferred.  
 
  OYSTERS OR CLAM FRITTERS (No.
1). Chop, not too fine, twenty-five of either 
 clams  or  oysters  (bearded or
not), and mix them in the  fritter batter  of either of
the above receipts. 
 
 
  CLAM FRITTERS (No.
2). Strain one pint of  clams,  saving the 
 juice;  add to this 
 juice sufficient  water  to make
one pint; mix into it one  egg,  well beaten, and
sufficient   prepared  flour 
to make a light batter, also the  clams  chopped, and
some  salt.  Drop by the spoonful into boiling-hot 
 lard.  
 
 
  KENTISH FRITTERS  ( Mrs. Acton ). 
 Beat up the  whites of three eggs  and the 
 yolks  of six, with half a pound of 
 flour,  a cupful of  milk,  and
a large tea-spoonful of  yeast.  Put the mixture into a
jar, and set it near the stove until the next day; then add to the batter two
large  apples  chopped. Drop this by the spoonful into
boiling  lard.  Sprinkle over 
 sugar.  
 
 
  FRIED CREAM ( Cr&#234;me Frite ). Every one should try this
receipt: It will surprise many to know how soft cream could be enveloped in the
crust, while it is an exceedingly good dish for a dinner course, or for lunch
or tea. When the pudding is hard, it can be rolled in the egg and bread-crumbs.
The moment the egg touches the hot lard it hardens and secures the pudding,
which softens to a creamy substance very delicious. 
 Ingredients: One pint of  milk,  five ounces of 
 sugar  (little more than half a cupful), 
 butter  the size of a hickory-nut,  yolks of
three eggs,  two table-spoonfuls of  corn
starch,  and one table-spoonful of  flour (a
generous half cupful altogether), stick of  cinnamon one
inch long, one half tea-spoonful of  vanilla.  
 Put the  cinnamon  into the 
 milk,  and when it is just about to boil stir in the 
 sugar,  and the  corn starch and
 flour,  the two latter rubbed smooth with two or three
table-spoonfuls of extra   cold
milk;  stir it over the fire for fully two minutes, to cook well
the  starch  and  flour;  take it
from the fire, stir in the beaten  yolks of the
eggs, and return it a few moments to set them; now, again taking it
from the fire, remove the  cinnamon,  stir in the 
 butter  and  vanilla,  and pour
it on a buttered platter until one-third of an inch high. When cold and stiff,
cut the pudding into parallelograms, about three inches long and two inches
wide; roll these carefully, first in sifted 
 cracker-crumbs,  then in 
 eggs (slightly beaten and sweetened), then again in the
 cracker-crumbs.  Dip these into boiling-hot 
 lard  (a wire basket should be used if convenient), and
when of fine color take them out, and place them in the oven for four or five
minutes to better soften the pudding. Sprinkle over  pulverized
sugar,  and serve immediately. 
 
 
  PEACH, APRICOT, OR APPLE
FRITTER ( French Cook ). 
 The  fresh or the canned fruit  may be used. If
fresh, pare, core, and cut them in halves. In either case, let them remain two
or three hours in  brandy,  
 rum,  or  wine,  with plenty of 
 sugar  sprinkled over, with some grated 
 lemon peel  or  zest.  When they
have absorbed the flavor of these surroundings, drain, and dip them into the 
 fritter batter (No. 1).  If 
 rum  is used for marinating the 
 fruit,  it should be also used in the batter. When the
fritters are done and well drained, sprinkle  powdered
sugar  over them. 
 
 
  BREAD FRITTERS. Having
cut off the crust, cut the  bread  into any shape
preferred, such as squares, circles, diamonds, etc. Let it soak in 
 custard  ( milk,  one or two 
 eggs,   sugar,  and a flavoring
of either  lemon-zest,  or 
 vanilla,   cinnamon,  
 nutmeg,   rose-water,  
 brandy,  or  wine ). When well
soaked (not enough, however, to break into pieces), roll it first in 
 bread crumbs,  then in beaten 
 egg  (sweetened and flavored), and again in 
 bread  or  cracker crumbs,  and
fry in boiling  lard.  Serve the fritters sprinkled with
 powdered sugar,  with or without a  sweet
sauce.  
 
 PORK FRITTERS (see page 164). 
 
 
  CORN
FRITTERS. Ingredients: The  corn  cut from
seven ears, one pint of  milk,  one 
 egg  beaten,  salt,  
  prepared  flour  enough to
make a light batter. Drop by the table-spoonful into boiling-hot 
 lard.  
 
 
  APPLE FRITTERS. Pare
some fine  apples,  and with an 
 apple-corer  cut out the core from the centre of each;
now cut them across in slices, about one-third of an inch thick, having the
round opening in the centre; dip these in either  fritter batter No.
1 or No. 2;  fry in boiling  lard;  sprinkle
over  sugar,  and serve in a circle, one overlapping the
other, with or without a  sweet sauce  in the
centre. 
    PASTRY. 
 PROFESSIONAL cooks use butter for pastry. Puff paste should never be
attempted with lard or a half mixture of it. If lard or clarified beef suet is
used, the pastry of an indifferent cook will be improved by adding a little
baking-powder to the flour and rolling the paste very thin. 
 It is not difficult to make puff paste. In winter, when it is freezing
outdoors, or in summer, when a refrigerator with ice in it is at hand, it is
very little more trouble to make puff paste than any other kind. The simple
rolling of the dough to form layers requires very little practice. The only
secret left, after using cold water and butter cold enough not to penetrate the
dough, is to have it almost at a freezing-point, or a least thoroughly chilled,
as it is put into a hot oven. 
 The 
 vols-au-vent  of strawberries, or berries of any
kind, or of jellies, or of lemon paste (see age 244), and also 
 rissoles,  are especially fine, and are quickly
made. 
 As hundreds of different dishes can be made with pastry, and as Car&#234;me
has devoted a good-sized volume to the subject, I will copy his receipt for
puff paste. It is not modest, perhaps, to put my own first; but it is for the
benefit of more ordinary cooks, who will never take extra trouble to make a
thing perfect.  
 
  PUFF
PASTE. Ingredients: One pound of 
 flour, three-quarters of a pound of 
 butter,   yolks of two eggs,  a
little  salt,  a sprinkle of
 sugar,  a little very cold (or, better, ice-cold) 
 water.  (All the professional cooks use a pound of 
 butter  to a pound of  flour.  I
think it makes the pastry too rich, and prefer three quarters of a pound of 
 butter  to a pound of 
 flour. ) 
 Sift and weigh the  flour,  and put it on the board
or marble slab; sprinkle a little  salt  and a very
little  sugar  over it. Beat the  yolks of
the eggs,  and then stir into them a few spoonfuls of 
 ice-cold water;  pour this slowly into the centre of
the  flour  with the left hand, working it at the same
time well into the mass with the tips of the fingers of the right hand.
Continue to work it, turning the fingers round and round on the board, until
you have a well-worked, smooth, and firm  paste.  Now
roll it out into a rectangular form, being particular to have the edges quite
straight. Much of success depends upon the even folding of the paste. Work the 
 butter  (which should be kept some minutes in very 
 cold water  if it is at all soft) until the moisture
and  salt  are wiped out, and it is quite supple; care
must be taken, however, to keep the  butter  from
getting too soft, as in this condition it would ruin the paste. Divide it into
three equal parts; spread one part as flatly and evenly as possible over half
of the crust, turn the other half over it, folding it a second time from right
to left. Roll this out to the same rectangular form as before; spread the
second portion of the  butter  on half of the crust;
fold and roll it out again as before, repeating the same process with the third
portion of  butter.  The paste has now been given what
they call three turns; it should be given six turns, turning and rolling the
paste after the  butter  is in. However, after the first
three turns, or after the  butter  is all in, the paste
should be placed on the  ice,  or in a cold place, to
remain about ten or fifteen minutes between each of the last three turns: this
will prevent the  butter  getting soft enough to
penetrate the dough. Each time before the dough is folded, it should be turned
half round, so as to roll it in a different direction each time; this makes the
layers  more even. In order to turn the paste, the
end may be held to the rolling-pin; then, rolling the pin, the dough will fold
loosely around it; the board may be sprinkled with 
 flour;  then the dough can be unrolled in the side
direction. This is better than to turn it with the hands, as it should be
handled as little as possible. When folded the last time, put the paste on a
platter, cover, and place in on the ice for half an hour, or where it may
become thoroughly chilled; then roll it out for immediate use; or, so long as
it is kept in a half-frozen state, it may be kept for one or two days. Firm,
solid  butter  should be selected for puff paste; a
light, crumbling  butter  would be very unsuitable.
After the pies, patties, or other articles are made (as in receipts), the
scraps may be used for making 
 rissoles.  Always select the coolest place possible
for making  puff paste.  In winter it is well to make it
by an open window. 
 
 
  CAR&#234;ME'S RECEIPT FOR PUFF
PASTE. Ingredients: Twelve ounces of fine sifted 
 flour,  twelve ounces of 
 butter,  two drams of  fine
salt,  and the  yolks of two
eggs beaten. 
 Manner of working: Having placed twelve ounces of 
 flour  on the board, make a small hole in the middle,
into which put two drams of  fine salt,  the 
 yolks of two eggs,  and nearly a glass of 
 water.  With the ends of the fingers gradually mix the 
 flour  with the ingredients, adding a little 
 water  when necessary, till the paste is of a proper
consistence--rather firm than otherwise. Then lean your hand on the board, and
work it for some minutes, when the paste will become soft to the touch and
glossy in appearance. 
 Care must be taken, in mixing the  flour  with the
liquid ingredients, that they do not escape, and that the paste be very lightly
gathered together, to prevent it from forming into lumps, which render it
stiff, and very difficult to be worked, thereby in some degree causing a
failure, which is easily ascertained by the paste, when drawn out, immediately
receding, which arises from its having been clumsily and irregularly mixed. To
remedy this, let it be carefully rolled out, placing here and there five or six
pieces of  butter,  each the size of a
  nutmeg, when, after working it as before, it
will acquire the degree of softness necessary. It is of importance to observe
that this paste should be neither too soft nor too hard, but of a proper
medium; yet it is better to be a little too soft than too stiff. One should not
choose a hot place in which to make paste: for this reason, summer renders the
operation quite difficult. If one can not find a cool place, the paste might be
slightly stiffer in summer than in winter. 
 When the paste has been made as above, take three-quarters of a pound of 
 butter  in pieces, which has been twenty minutes in 
 ice-water,  well washed and pounded. Squeeze and work
it well in a napkin, in order to separate the 
 water from it, and at the same time to render it soft,
and, above all, of an equal consistence; then, as quickly as possible, roll the
paste into a square on a marble slab (the ends must be perfectly even, as much
success depends upon folding); place the  butter  in the
middle; spread it over half the paste, immediately turning over the other half
of the paste to cover it. Then roll the paste out about three feet in length;
fold it into three parts by doubling one part over the other; after which roll
it out again, and fold it once more into three equal parts; now roll it to a
greater length, fold it, and put it quickly on a plate sprinkled with 
 flour.  Place this upon ten pounds of 
 pounded ice,  then, covering it with a second plate,
put upon that one pound of broken ice. This plate serves to keep the surface of
the paste cool, and also to prevent its becoming soft by the action of the air.
After two or three minutes, remove the plate, and turn the paste upside down,
instantly covering it as before. After about fifteen minutes, roll it out, and
use it as expeditiously as possible. 
 Thus, in less than half an hour, it is possible to make very fine 
 puff paste,  having previously every thing ready--the
ice pounded, the  butter  frozen, and the oven quite
hot; for otherwise it can not be done. This is all-important, as it is
sometimes an hour before the oven can be made hot. When the oven is half
heated, begin to make the paste. 
 The great variety of elegant and delicate forms *  this
paste is  made to assume justifies one for giving
such explicit instructions, and repays one for all necessary pains to make
it. 
  The following note appears at the bottom of page 235 in the
original text. 
 *Francatelli used three oblong tin pans, three inches
deep, instead of plates, the under and upper pans serving to hold the pounded
ice.--ED. 
 
  FOR PIES. I mean Yankee
pies. Our English cousins, when speaking of pies, mean only meat-pies, calling
our pies tarts. When the  paste  is fitted over the 
 pie-plate,  cut round the edge of it with a sharp knife
dipped in flour. Now cut a long curved strip, about three-quarters of an inch
wide, wet slightly the top of the paste on the 
 pie-plate near the edge ( not the
edge ), and fit the strip around the pie, the edges coming together. Fill
the pie, and place in the oven as soon as possible. 
 
 
  PIE PASTE OF LARD AND BUTTER  ( Mrs. Treat ). 
 Rub a half pound of fresh  lard  into a pound of 
 flour;  use just enough of very  cold
water  to bind it together; roll it out rather thin, and spread 
 butter  over the surface; now fold the paste, turning
it twice; roll it out again, dredging the board (a marble slab is preferable)
with  flour;  spread on more 
 butter  as before, and fold it again. The same process
is continued a third time, using in all a quarter of a pound of 
 butter,  which should at first be divided into three
equal parts. *  
 
 
  A COMMON PASTE ( for Meat-pies and Puddings ). Ingredients: One
pound of  flour,  half a pound of 
 lard,  two tea-spoonfuls of 
 yeast-powder,  and a little  cold
water.  
 First mix well the  yeast-powder  into the sifted 
 flour;  then rub in very carelessly and lightly the 
 lard,  distributing it in rather coarse pieces. Now
pour in enough  cold water  to bind it together loosely,
using the separated fingers of the right hand to turn the 
 flour  lightly, while the 
 water  is being poured in with the left hand; roll it
out in its rough state; prepare the dish, and bake or boil immediately. 
  The following note appears at the bottom of page 236 in the
original text. 
 *Four cupfuls of sifted flour are a pound; one cupful
of lard or butter is half a pound. 
 
  AN APPLE-PIE  ( Car&#234;me ). 
 Select fine  apples;  pare them, and take out the
cores without  breaking them. Boil several whole
in a  stew-pan  with a little 
 lemon-juice,  a very little of the   yellow  part of the peel,  some 
 sugar,  and enough  water  to
cover them, until nearly done. Quarter other 
 apples; put them also on the fire with a little 
 water,   lemon-peel,  
 lemon-juice,  and  sugar;  boil
these to a kind of marmalade; add some  butter  and 
 peach marmalade, and rub it through a 
 colander.  Have some  pie-plates 
covered with  puff paste;  fill the bottom with the 
 marmalade,  and put in four small 
 apples  (whole) to each pie, filling the cavities
between with  peach marmalade.  Put two strips of 
 crust  (half an inch wide) across the pie, which will
divide the  apples.  Bake in a quick oven. This is
especially good served with  cream.  
 
 
  A PLAIN APPLE-PIE  ( Miss Amanda Newton ). 
 Slice  pippin apples,  and put them between two
layers of  pie-paste,  with enough 
 water  to keep them moist. When they are baked, lift
the crust carefully off with a knife, and put it aside; now mash the 
 apples  with a spoon, season them with plenty of 
 sugar,   butter,  and grated 
 nutmeg;  replace the top crust and sprinkle 
 sugar  over it. These pies are especially nice when
freshly made, then allowed to cool, and served with 
 cream  poured over each piece as it is cut, ready to be
eaten. 
 I think the flavor of the  apple  is better preserved
in this manner than if the seasoning were cooked in it. However, many stew the 
 apples  first, before baking them in the pie. 
 
 
  FRUIT AND BERRY PIES, OR
TARTS. In England, only an upper crust is made. In this country there
is generally only an under crust, with bars of 
 paste crossed over the top. I prefer this mode; but
these tarts should always be served fresh, or the under crust will become
soaked and unwholesome. The  berries  or 
 fruits  are first stewed with 
 sugar  to taste, then baked, or not baked in the crust,
as preferred. 
 
 
  LEMON-PIE  ( Mrs.
Hunt ), No. 1. 
 Ingredients: One heaping table-spoonful of  corn
starch,  one cupful of  boiling water,  one
cupful of  sugar,  one  egg,  one
table-spoonful of  butter,  and one small 
 lemon.   
 Moisten a heaping table-spoonful of  corn starch with
a little  cold water,  then add a cupful of 
 boiling water;  stir this over the fire for two or
three minutes, allowing it to boil, and cook the 
 starch;  add a tea-spoonful of 
 butter  and a cupful of 
 sugar; remove the mixture from the fire, and when
slightly cooled, add an  egg,  well beaten, and the 
 juice and grated rind of a fresh lemon.  This makes one
pie, and should be baked with the  crust.  
 
 
  LEMON-PIE  ( Long
Branch ), No. 2. 
 Ingredients: Four  eggs,  four table-spoonfuls of 
 sugar,  two-thirds of a cupful of 
 flour,  nearly a quart of 
 milk,  two small  lemons,  a
little  salt.  *  
 Bake two  under-crusts.  Mix the 
 egg-yolks  and  sugar  well
together. Bring the  milk  to the boiling-point, then
add the  flour  mixed with some of the 
 milk,  to prevent lumping. Stir it until it has
thickened and cooked, when remove it from the fire to stir in the 
 yolks  and  sugar;  return it
for a minute to set the  eggs;  again remove it, and
flavor with  lemon-juice and grated rind;  when the
crusts are done, spread over  cream,  and over this
spread the beaten  whites of the eggs  sweetened and
flavored. Put it into the oven a few minutes to color. 
 
 
  ORANGE-PIE  ( Mrs. Miller ). 
 Ingredients: Half a pound of  sugar,  quarter of a
pound of  butter,  two 
 oranges, six  eggs.  
 Grate the  rinds of the oranges,  and squeeze the 
 juice.  Cream the  butter,  and
by degrees add the  sugar.  Beat in the 
 yolks of the eggs (already well beaten), then the 
 rind and juice of the oranges.  Beat the 
 whites of the eggs  to a stiff froth, and mix them
lightly in the other ingredients. Bake in paste-lined tin 
 pie-plates.  
  The following note appears at the bottom of page 238 in the
original text. 
 *If fresh lemons can not be obtained, the extract of
lemon may be used. Do not let the pies remain in the tins. 
 
  PUMPKIN-PIE  ( Mrs. Otis, of Boston ), No. 1. 
 Pare a small  pumpkin,  and take out the seeds; stew
it rather dry, and strain it through a  colander;  add two
quarts of  milk,   three 
 eggs,  and three table-spoonfuls of 
 molasses;  let the remainder of the sweetening (to
taste) be of  sugar;  season it with two table-spoonfuls
of ground  cinnamon,  one of 
 ginger,  and two tea-spoonfuls of 
 salt.  
 
 
  PUMPKIN-PIE (No.
2). Cut the  pumpkin  into large pieces, and
bake with the skins on; scoop out the soft  pumpkin
pulp,  and proceed as with stewed 
 pumpkin.  
 
 
  MINCE-PIES  ( Mrs. Bonner ), No. 1. 
 Ingredients: Four pounds of lean, cold boiled 
 meat chopped fine, nine pounds of 
 apples  chopped fine, one and a half pounds of 
 suet  chopped fine, three pounds of 
 raisins,  two pounds of 
 currants,  half a pound of 
 citron  sliced fine, five pounds of 
 sugar,  three tea-spoonfuls of ground 
 cloves,  ten tea-spoonfuls of ground 
 cinnamon,  five tea-spoonfuls of ground 
 mace,  one tea-spoonful of  ground black
pepper,  six table-spoonfuls of  salt,  one
quart of  cider  and 
 vinegar mixed with one quart of 
 molasses.  
 Mix all, and add the  juice and grated rinds of two
lemons;  or, instead of  cider,  
 vinegar,  and  molasses,  one
quart of  sherry  and one pint of 
 brandy  may be substituted. Keep this mince-meat in
stone jars; add a little more liquor, if it should become too dry, when about
to make pies. 
 
 
  MINCE-PIES  ( Mrs. Hazard ), No. 2. 
 Boil, until tender, a  beef's tongue  which has been
kept in  salt  four or five days; when cold, chop it
fine, and add to it two pounds of  suet  (also chopped
fine), two pounds of  raisins,  two pounds of 
 Zante currants  (previously washed and drained), twelve
large  apples  (chopped), four pounds of 
 sugar,  the grated  rind of one, and the
juice and pulp of two large oranges,  a cupful of 
 strawberry or of raspberry jam,  a cupful of 
 quince preserve,  three-quarters of a pound of 
 citron  shaved fine, two table-spoonfuls of ground 
 cinnamon,  and one table-spoonful of 
 nutmeg.  Moisten it with the spiced  vinegar
from the sweet peach-pickle jar,  and add the  juice and
grated rinds of four lemons.  
  
 
  POTATO-PIE  ( Mrs. Osborne ). 
 Ingredients: Two pounds of boiled  potatoes  sifted,
six  eggs,  three-quarters of a pound of 
 butter,  one pound of 
 sugar, one  lemon  grated and
squeezed into the  potatoes  while hot, half a 
 nutmeg  grated, half a pint of 
 wine,  one and a half of  rich
milk.  
 Rub the  sugar  and  butter to
a cream; add the  yolks  well beaten, then the 
 potatoes,  etc., lastly the  whites of the
eggs  beaten to a stiff froth. Bake with an under crust only. 
 
 
  PINE-APPLE-PIE  ( "Choice Receipts" ). 
 Ingredients: A grated  pine-apple  and its weight in 
 sugar,  half its weight in 
 butter,  five  eggs  (the 
 whites  beaten to a stiff froth), one cupful of 
 cream.  
 Cream the  butter,  and beat it with the 
 sugar  and  yolks  until very
light; add the  cream,  the 
 pine-apple,  and the  whites of the
eggs.  Bake with an under crust. To be eaten cold. 
 
 
  CHESS-PIE. A gentlemen
friend spoke to me so often about a wonderfully delicious pie that a lady
friend in the country made, that it is not surprising that a person of my
culinary tastes should have been very curious. "I will send for the receipt,"
said I. "But that will not benefit you," he replied, "for I have given the
receipt to several of my friends, and they never succeed. Instead of the light
production three or four inches high of my country friend, the others are
heavy, waxy affairs, very different." I actually took a little journey to see
the lady, to get any side explanations from her own lips. I was repaid, as you
will see by trying the pie. 
 Ingredients: For two pies, five  eggs,  three
quarters of a cupful of  butter,  one cupful of 
 sugar,  and necessary flavoring. 
 Beat the  yolks  and 
 sugar together until they are a perfect froth. Beat the
 butter  until it is a creamy froth also. Now quickly
add them together, flavoring with a little  extract of
vanilla.  Bake it in a crust: it will rise very light. As soon as
done, have ready the  whites of the eggs  beaten to a
stiff froth, sweetened with a little  sugar,  and
flavored with a few  drops of the 
 extract.  Spread this over the tops of the pies, which
return to the oven, to receive a delicate coloring. 
 The lady says the secret of the pies not becoming heavy is in cutting them,
and distributing them on the plates, as soon as they are cooked, and still hot;
that if they are allowed to cool without cutting them, they will fall. This is
rather strange; nevertheless, it seems to be true. 
 
 
  SMALL VOLS-AU-VENT, OR PATTY
CASES. Make  puff paste  as before described;
give it six or seven turns, wetting the top of the paste, before turning it the
last time, with  water  or a little 
 lemon-juice;  roll it out evenly about a third of an
inch thick. Cut out as many cakes as are required with a circular 
 tin cutter  (a scolloped one is prettier) about two
inches in diameter. Now take a second cutter about half an inch smaller in
diameter than the first, and press it into the tops of the patties, allowing it
to sink half-way through the crust; or cut the patties with a sharp 
 penknife,  tracing it around a little 
 paste-board  model. 
 When all are cut, brush over the tops with beaten 
 egg,  being careful not to moisten the edges; if they
are to be filled with 
 sweetmeats, sprinkle  Nine
patty cases arranged on a round platter.  
 sugar  over the tops. When baked, take off the
marked-out covers, and cut out the centres without defacing the outsides. Keep
them in a warm place until just before serving, when they should be filled, and
covered with the little crust tops. 
 In entertaining, it will be found very convenient to purchase patty-cases at
the confectioner's. They can be reheated the last five minutes, and filled with
any thing preferred made at home. They are also quite cheap. 
 
 
  OYSTERS FOR VOLS-AU-VENT,
SCALLOP-SHELLS, OR SERVED ON BUTTERED TOAST FOR BREAKFAST (No.
1). Bring a canful or a quart of  oysters  to
the boiling-point in  their liquor; then drain
them. Put  butter  the size of half an egg into a
saucepan, and when hot add half a small  onion  (cut
very fine) and a tea-spoonful of  flour,  stirring them
well; add then half a tea-cupful of the  juice in a can of
mushrooms,   pepper,  
 salt,  a sprig of  parsley  (cut
very fine), half a box of  mushrooms  (chopped not too
fine); then add the  oysters.  Stir all together over
the fire for a minute; add a few drops of 
 lemon-juice. This is a very nice filling for 
 vols-au-vent  made as in receipt. 
 
 
  OYSTERS FOR VOLS-AU-VENT,
SCALLOP-SHELLS, OR SERVED ON BUTTERED TOAST FOR BREAKFAST (No. 2). Put
the  oysters  on the fire in their own 
 liquor,  and when they are just beginning to simmer
skim them out quickly with a  perforated ladle;  if there
is too much  juice  in the saucepan, pour out all except
what is necessary for making a sauce of creamy thickness for the 
 oysters;  skim this well, and make it as thick as rich
cream with  flour  and 
 butter smoothed together ( roux ). Season it well with 
 salt  and  Cayenne pepper; some
add also a little  nutmeg.  When cooked enough, take the
sauce off the fire, add the  yolks of two or three eggs 
well beaten, and the  oysters.  Let them merely become
hot again on the range without allowing them to boil. Serve immediately. If
these preparations are used for  scallop-shells,  sprinkle
some  cracker-crumbs  over the tops, and brown them
quickly with a  salamander.  
 
 
  VOLS-AU-VENT OF OYSTERS (No.
3). Fill the  vols-au-vent  (made
as in preceding article) with  oysters  prepared as
follows: Beard and put them into a  stew-pan  with a
little  stock;  as soon as they are cooked, cut them in
two; add three or four table-spoonfuls of the 
 oyster-liquor  to the 
 stock, and add to it a  roux  of a little  butter  and
 flour;  add then a very little 
 cayenne,  a little  nutmeg,  and
two or three table-spoonfuls of  cream.  It should be
rather thicker than cream. Fill the pastry the last thing before serving, and
cover with the tops. 
 
 
  VOLS-AU-VENT OF
SWEET-BREADS. Prepare the  sweet-breads  as
described in receipt for frying them in the   saut&#233;  pan  (see page 152), preparing
also the same  
 cream-sauce. After the 
 sweet-breads  are cooked, cut them into dice, or into
rather small pieces; fill the  vols-au-vent  with them, pouring over them a little
of the  cream-sauce;  cover with the 
 vols-au-vent  tops. 
 
 
  VOLS-AU-VENT OF CHICKENS,
SHRIMPS, SALMON, MUSHROOMS, VEAL, GAME, ETC. Fill the 
 vols-au-vent  with almost any kind of 
 meat  or  fish  cut into dice,
pouring over them a very little  sauce.  Do not add too
much  sauce,  as it would run through the sides. For 
 chicken,  a   Bechamel  or a cream sauce  is good; for 
 shrimps,  a  shrimp-sauce;  for 
 salmon  or any other kind of 
 fish,   Hollandaise, shrimp, pickle, or any
fish sauce;  for  veal  or 
 lamb,  a little thickened 
 gravy.  This is a very good way of using up remnants of
any kind of  fish  or  meat.  
 
 
  VOLS-AU-VENT, WITH STRAWBERRIES, RASPBERRIES, OR
CURRANTS  ( English Lady ). 
 Instead of sprinkling  sugar  over the tops of the 
 vols-au-vent,  glaze them on top with
four ounces of  sugar  boiled to a candy, on which
sprinkle some fine pieces of pounded  loaf-sugar.  Take
about one-fourth of the ripest of the  strawberries  to
be used, mash them fine, add a little more  sugar  to
what remains of the  sugar  used for glazing, and after
boiling it so that it is not quite ready to candy, add the mashed 
 strawberries  and their 
 juice; skim the mixture, and as soon as it sticks to
the fingers take it off the fire. 
 Just before serving, fill the 
 vols-au-vent  with the fresh 
 strawberries,  and cover them with the sirup, when it
is cold. Proceed in the same manner with 
 raspberries and  red and white
currants.  
 
 
  VOLS-AU-VENT, WITH STRAWBERRIES,
ETC. When the  vols-au-vent  are
nearly or quite done, take them out of the oven, brush the tops over with the 
 white of an egg,  then sprinkle over this coarse 
 sugar;  return them to the oven to set the glaze. At
the moment of serving, fill the 
 vols-au-vent  with fresh 
 strawberries,   raspberries,  or
any kind of  preserved fruit.  Place a few spoonfuls of 
 whipped cream  over the tops of the 
 fruit.  
 
 
  LEMON PASTE ( for Tarts or Patties ). To one pound of 
 lump-sugar  add six 
 eggs, leaving out the  whites 
of two, the  juice of four large lemons,  with the
grated  rinds  of three of them, and one quarter of a
pound of very good  butter.  Put all into a 
 stew-pan,  and stir gently over a slow fire (or set the
basin into a pan of  boiling water ) until it becomes
thick and looks like honey; do not let it boil. Pour it into bottles or jars,
and keep it in a cool place. It will keep three or four years. 
 Bake the  crust  for the tarts. Put in a little of
the lemon paste while the crusts are hot. Then return them to the oven, to
remain until the  paste  is nicely melted, when the
tarts will be quite ready. 
 
 
  MINCE-MEAT
PATTIES. Either make or purchase the 
 patty-shells,  and just before serving fill them with 
 mince-meat  (see page 230), and heat them for a few
minutes in the oven. 
 
 
  CREAM RISSOLES ( Rissoles &#224; la Cr&#234;me ). The cream 
 rissoles  are made as meat 
 rissoles  (see page 142), substituting the 
 corn-starch pudding described for fried cream  (see
page 230) for the prepared meat;  or the   rissoles   may be filled with 
 apple-sauce,   marmalade,  or
any of the stewed  fruits  or 
 berries.   
    CANNING. 
 THIS is a most valuable manner of preserving vegetables and fruits. In
cities where vegetables, fruits, or berries are bought at high prices, and
perhaps not entirely fresh at that, my experience has taught me that it is
cheaper to buy the canned fruits than to have them put up in the house. In the
country the expense is very little as the cans may be purchased in quantities
very cheap; and, with proper care in cleaning and drying them, they can be used
several times.  
 The manner of canning one kind of fruit or vegetable applies to almost all
kinds, except corn. I would not advise any one to attempt canning corn without
the correct process direct from Mr. Winslow himself. By mixing corn and
tomatoes together no difficulty will be found. Gumbo and tomato mixed are
valuable for soup. Canned tomatoes are invaluable in a household. They are very
easily managed, and are as desirable for soups and sauces as for a separate 
 vegetable dish.  If fruits or vegetables or any kind are
quite fresh, and there is not too large a quantity scalded at one time to
prevent careful management of each can, not one can in a hundred will be lost.
I also advise the 
 canning  of sweetmeats of every kind. In that case
the same amount of sugar is not required, and the fruit does not have to be
boiled until the natural flavor is entirely lost. If glass jars are used
instead of cans, they must be put on the fire in cold water with a plate or
piece of wood in the bottom of the kettle. They should not be filled until the
water is boiling, and then they will not be broken. They should be sealed as
soon as possible after they are filled, and when they are cold the covers
should again be tightened, as the glass will contract a little after
cooling. 
 
  TO CAN TOMATOES. Let
them be entirely fresh. Put scalding  water  over them
to aid in removing the skins. When the cans with their covers are in readiness
upon the table, the red sealing wax (which is generally too brittle, and
requires a little lard melted with it) is in a cup at the back of the fire, the
tea-kettle is full of  boiling water,  and the 
 tomatoes  are all skinned, we are ready to begin the
canning. First put four cans (if there are two persons, three if only one
person) on the hearth in front of the fire; fill them with  boiling
water.  Put enough  tomatoes  in a porcelain
 preserving kettle  to fill these cans; add no 
 water  to them. With a good fire let them come to the
boiling point, or let them all be well scalded through. Then, emptying the 
 hot water  from the cans, fill them with the hot 
 tomatoes;  wipe off the moisture from the tops with a
soft cloth, and press the covers on tightly. While pressing each cover down
closely  with a knife, pour carefully around it
the hot sealing-wax from the tin cup, so bent at the edge that the wax may run
out in a small stream. Hold the knife still a moment longer, that the wax may
set. When these cans are sealed, continue the operation until all the 
 tomatoes  are canned. Now put the blade of an old knife
in the coals, and when it is red-hot run it over the tops of the sealing-wax to
melt any bubbles that may have formed; then, examining each can, notice if
there is any hissing noise, which will indicate a want of tightness in the can,
which allows the steam to escape. If any holes are found, wipe them, and cover
them while the cans are hot with a bit of the sealing-wax. There will be juice
left after the  tomatoes  are canned.  Season
this and boil it down for  catchup.   
 
 
  TO CAN PEACHES. 
 Cling-stones  are best. Pare, halve, and stone them.
Boil the  stones  or  pits  until
all the flavor is extracted; then, having every thing in readiness, as
described in the preceding article, pour off the 
 water from the pits, and when it is at boiling-point,
throw into it enough  peaches  to fill three or four
cans; sprinkle over  sugar  to taste, or about as much
as would be sprinkled over fresh  peaches  for the
table. When just scalded, can them, placing round pieces of writing-paper
dipped in brandy over the tops of the  peaches  before
putting on the covers. 
    Pears,
plums, and all kinds of fruit and berries   are thrown into a
little  boiling water  sweetened to taste, scalded, and
canned in the same manner as tomatoes.  
 
 
   STRING-BEANS.  Next to tomatoes,
the vegetable easiest to can is, perhaps, the 
 string-bean.  Remove the tough strings at the sides,
and break the  bean  into two or three pieces. When all
ready, throw them into a little  boiling water,  scald,
and then can them. 
 
 
   OKRA AND TOMATOES  are merely
mixed and scalded together. Some add  pepper  and 
 salt,  yet these are not necessary in canning. 
 This makes a most delicious   soup   added to a little 
 stock.   
  
 
   RASPBERRIES  are especially easy to
can. They are merely thrown into a little  boiling
water  (which is slightly sweetened), scalded, and then canned.
They are very wholesome and nice as a sauce for tea. 
 
 
   GREENGAGES  should be canned without
skinning. They should be well scalded in a little  sweetened boiling
water  before canning. 
 
 
   CORN.  Since writing the preceding
discouraging remark about  corn,  I have found, in a
Supreme Court decision, Mr. Winslow's receipt for canning 
 corn  as follows: 
 Fill the cans with the uncooked  corn  (freshly
gathered) cut from the cob, and seal them hermetically; surround them with
straw to prevent them striking against each other, and put them into a 
 boiler  over the fire, with enough  cold
water  to cover them. Heat the 
 water gradually, and when they have boiled an hour and
a half, puncture the tops of the cans to allow the escape of gases, then seal
them immediately while they are still hot. Continue to boil them for two hours
and a half. 
 In packing the cut  corn  in the can, the liberated
milk and juices surround the kernels, forming a liquid in which they are
cooked. 
 This process, patented by  Mr. Winslow,  is by far
the best one for preserving the natural flavor of green  sweet
corn.  
 
 
   SUCCOTASH.   Lima
beans  and  corn  mixed. They should be
boiled until they are thoroughly done. 
 
 
   CORN AND TOMATOES  make a
good combination for canning. The  corn,  however,
should be thoroughly cooked, and mixed with the 
 tomatoes,  after the latter have been scalded
merely. 
   
  PRESERVES. 
 To make clear, good preserves requires: 1st. No economy of trouble; 2d. That
the fruit be perfectly fresh, 
 alive  from the tree or bush, or, as a friend says,
"tasting of the sun." 
 The French make the clearest, best preserves, because they spare no pains.
They first prepare their sirup or clarified sugar; then, after neatly and
carefully paring or dressing their fruit, cook a few pieces at a time, or only
as many as they can oversee, carefully lifting each piece out of the sirup the
moment it is done. How they preserve strawberries in bottle (each little bottle
of which sells for seventy-five cents), retaining the full flavor and almost
the firmness of the fresh strawberries, is something for me to investigate. 
 I consider the peach marmalade the most valuable preserve, as it is useful
in preparing desserts. It is a good sauce for almost any kind of pudding,
especially corn-starch and rice puddings. Preserves are generally made too
sweet. Before hermetically sealed cans or jars were in general use, it required
a large quantity of sugar to keep the preserves from fermenting. Now, in using
cans, one can suit the taste as to the sweetness of the preserve. I prefer tin
cans to glass bottles, as sometimes the bottled jelly or preserves will
ferment, requiring a second cooking. Tin cans have never failed me. Others
prefer bottles, having no trouble, they say, in tightening them perfectly. The
citron preserve, flavored with root ginger and lemon, is a success. It has the
flavor of the ginger preserve from the West Indies, which is so fashionable,
expensive, and serviceable as an accompaniment for ice-cream, etc.; it is also
inexpensive. 
 Apples preserved with a flavor of lemon and ginger are particularly nice
also; of course, they are not as firm as citron, and do not imitate so well the
ginger preserve. The outside of the water-melon (skinned) makes a clear, pretty
preserve, flavored in the same manner. The next in favor is the greengage
preserve, which is as clear and beautiful as it is delicate in flavor. Peaches,
unless made into marmalade, are better when canned with very little sugar than
when preserved. Canned peaches, half-frozen when served, make a delicious
dessert with cake.  
 First, then, for preserves the sirup must be made. I give the old rule; yet,
as before remarked, if canned, they may be made less sweet. I generally use
half a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. 
 
  SIRUP FOR
PRESERVES. Put two pounds of the best  white
sugar,  with one pint of fresh, clear 
 water,  into a white porcelain saucepan; put it on the
fire, and before the sirup becomes hot mix well into it the partly beaten 
 white of an egg.  When it begins to boil, remove the
scum as it rises; watch it constantly that it does not boil over; and continue
to boil it until no more scum rises. 
  Now  peach, pear, greengage, Siberian crab-apple, and
cherry preserves  are all made in the same manner. The 
 peaches  are neatly peeled, stoned, and halved. The 
 pears  are peeled, cored, and cut into two. The 
 greengage  makes a prettier preserve without being
skinned--pricking them, and halving the stem. The French preserve greengages in
this manner. Some think the skins of  plums  are tough
in preserves, and throw them into  boiling water  to
skin them. The  Siberian crab-apple,  which makes a very
good preserve, is cored with a small tin tube or 
 corer (see page 57). Half of the stem is cut from 
 cherries. When the sirup is gently boiling, a few
pieces are put into it at one time. They are boiled until they become just
soft. Do not allow them to break. When the pieces are done, take them carefully
out, and put more into the sirup until all are cooked; pour the sirup over, and
put them into jars.  
 Many add a little  juice of lemon  to 
 pear,   crab-apple,  and 
 plum  preserves. I would recommend a very little. In
the case of  peaches,  more flavor is gained by boiling
the  pits,  if they are cling-stone (which they should
be--the White Heath being the best preserving  peach ),
and after straining the  water  using it to make the
sirup. They will be firmer by laying the uncooked 
 peaches  into the sirup, and letting them remain in it
overnight, cooking them the next morning. Others harden 
 fruit  by letting it remain ten or fifteen minutes in 
 alum-water.  This impairs the flavor. However, for
good, clear preserves, I prefer the first method of preserving them, using the
pits for the  water  with which to make peach marmalade.
Peach marmalade  and peach preserves should be
made at the same time, when the  peaches  of less
pretentious appearance can be used for the marmalade. Boil preserves without a
cover to the kettle. 
 
 
  CITRON PRESERVES  ( Miss Leslie ). 
 The  citrons  can be pared, cored, and sliced, or cut
into fancy shapes with cutters which are made for the purpose. To six pounds of
the  citron,  use six pounds of 
 sugar,  four  lemons,  and a
quarter of a pound of  ginger-root.  
 Put the slices of  lemon  into a 
 preserving-kettle,  and boil them for half an hour, or
until they look clear, in a little clear  water;  then
drain them. Save the  water,  and put the slices into
another dish with a little  cold water;  cover them, and
let them stand overnight. In the morning wrap the 
 root-ginger  (bruised) in a thin muslin cloth; boil it
in three pints of clear  water  until the 
 water  is highly flavored, when take out the bag of 
 ginger.  Having broken up the 
 loaf-sugar,  put it into the 
 preserving-kettle  with the 
 ginger-water.  When the 
 sugar is all melted, set it over the fire; boil, and
skim until no more scum rises. Then put in the pieces of 
 citron  and the  juice of the
lemons.  Boil them in the sirup till all the slices are quite
transparent. Do not allow them to break. When done, put them into the cans or
jars, pouring the sirup carefully over them.  If one desires to
imitate the  West Indies ginger preserve,  the slices of lemon
may not be added; yet they are pretty addition.  
 
 
  QUINCE PRESERVES  ( Mrs. Hazard ). 
 Pare, core, and quarter the  quinces.  Select the
best-looking quarters for the preserves; the inferior-looking ones reserve,
with the cores and skins, for the marmalade. 
 For the preserves, allow three-quarters of a pound of 
 sugar  to a pound of 
 fruit. Make a  sirup  as before
described (sirup for preserves), allowing one pint of 
 water  to two pounds of  sugar. 
When it is clear, and still boiling-hot, add the hot 
 quinces,  which have been boiled in just enough clear 
 water  to cover them well--boiled until they are
tender, or are easily pierced with a broom-straw--no longer. The preserves are
now ready to be put away. With this proportion of 
 fruit,   water,  and 
 sugar,   the preserves
will not have much  juice.  What there is will form a
thin, clear jelly around the  quinces  after they are
kept a short time: the hot sirup will draw juice from the hot 
 quinces  to flavor and color it just enough. There is
much difference in the choice of  quinces.  There is a
kind which makes a white or light-colored preserve, very inferior in flavor to
the large  quince,  which makes the red. 
 
 
  TOMATO PRESERVES  ( Mrs. Wilson ). 
 Choose little red, plum-shaped  tomatoes,  if red
preserves are desired, and the small yellow ones for yellow preserves. Peel,
and prick them with a large needle; boil them slowly for half an hour in 
 preserving-sirup,  with the  juice of one
lemon  to every two pounds of  tomatoes; add
also a little bag of  ginger-root;  then skim out the 
 tomatoes;  let them remain two or three hours in the
sun to harden. Put the  white of an egg  into the sirup;
boil and skim well, and pour it over the  tomatoes.  The
old rule is a pound of  sugar  to a pound of 
 fruit.  I prefer three-quarters of a pound of the
former to a pound of the latter. The  yellow tomatoes 
are preferable. 
 
 
  GRAPE
PRESERVES. Squeeze with your fingers the pulp from each 
 grape.  Put the  pulps  on the
fire, and boil them until they are tender; then press them through a 
 colander,  so that the seeds may be taken out; now add
the  skins  to the  pulps  and 
 juice.  Put a cupful of 
 sugar to each cupful of  fruit, 
and boil all together until of a thick consistency.  
 Green-grape preserves  are also nice. In managing the 
 green grapes,  halve them, and extract the seeds with a
small knife. Put also a cupful of  sugar  to a cupful of
 fruit. Many prefer the green to the ripe grape
preserves.  
 
 
  APPLE GINGER. Boil 
 ginger-root,  tied in a thin muslin bag, in clear 
 water  until the  water  is well
flavored; make a sirup of this  water  and 
 sugar,  adding to it a little 
 lemon-juice,  and allowing three-quarters of a pound of
 sugar  to a pound of 
 apples. When the sirup is skimmed clear, boil in it a
few quarters of the  apples 
  at a time, until they become clear--no longer.
Replace the  apples  in the 
 sirup  when it becomes cold. The golden 
 pippins  should be used. This preserve can be made
without ginger. 
 
 
  CANDIED FRUITS. Boil 
 peaches,   plums,  
 pears,   apricots,  
 cherries,  or almost any 
 fruit dressed, in a thick 
 sirup  made with a tea-cupful of 
 water  to each pound of 
 sugar, until tender--no longer. Let them remain two
days in the sirup; then take them out, drain them, and sprinkle 
 sugar  over each piece separately. Dry them slowly in
the sun or in an oven not too warm. 
   MARMALADES. 
 To produce the best marmalades, choose ripe and luscious fruits. Cut them
into pieces, and put them into the  preserving-kettle with
layers of sugar, placing fruit at the bottom. 
 For marmalades of peach, pear, green grape, pine-apple, quince, or plum,
allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. If the fruit is
not very juicy, add a little water. Be careful that the marmalade does not
burn. When the whole begins to look clear, and becomes thick by cooling a
portion of it on a plate, it is done, and may be put into jars at once. 
 
  QUINCE MARMALADE. Save
the  water in which the quinces for preserving were
boiled;  add to it the  skins  and 
 cores,  rejecting those which are worm-eaten or
discolored. After boiling about half an hour, strain through a 
 colander,  allowing the pulp only to pass. To this juice
add the reserved  quince  quarters and the 
 sugar  (three-fourths of a pound of 
 sugar  to one pound of  fruit ).
Let all boil together slowly for about an hour and a half, stirring
occasionally, and breaking the  quinces  into small
pieces. When done, pour it into glasses or bowls. The marmalade will harden,
and each mold will form a convenient little dish for lunch. 
 
 
  PEACH MARMALADE is made as above. Yet more
flavor may be obtained by boiling the  pits  until their
flavor is extracted; then remove them, and continue boiling the  water  until you
have sufficient to add to the  peaches.  
 
 
  ORANGE MARMALADE. Allow
three-quarters of a pound of  sugar  to a pound of 
 fruit.  Cut the  peels  so that
they may be removed in four pieces. Boil these peels in a large quantity of 
 water  for two hours; then cut them into fine shreds.
While these are boiling, press the inside of the 
 oranges  through a sieve fine enough to prevent the
seeds and skin from passing through. For every five 
 oranges,  add the grated  rind and juice of
one lemon.  Put all into a 
 preserving-kettle with the 
 sugar.  When done, the marmalade should be quite thick
and solid. Cover closely in little preserving-jars. 
  
 
  RASPBERRY JAM. Use
three-quarters of a pound of  sugar  to a pound of 
 fruit.  First boil the  fruit  a
few minutes with very little  water;  then add the 
 sugar.  Boil three-quarters of an hour, stirring well.
Fill little jars or glasses, covering them first with papers soaked in brandy,
and then with second papers moistened with the whites of eggs, and pressed
against the sides of the glasses to exclude the air. 
 
 
  GREENGAGE JAM. Use
three-quarters of a pound of  sugar  to a pound of 
 fruit.  Skin and stem ripe 
 greengages,  and boil them quickly for three-quarters
of an hour with the  sugar,  and only enough 
 water  to keep them from burning at first. Skim, and
stir very frequently. 
 
 
  BRANDY PEACHES. Use 
 cling-stone peaches.  Rub off the down from each one,
and prick it to the stone with a silver fork. Make a 
 sirup  with half a pound of 
 sugar  for each pound of 
 peaches,  and half a tea-cupful of 
 water  for each pound of 
 sugar;  also add a little  white of
egg  slightly beaten. Skim, when it boils, as long as the scum
rises. Then put in the  peaches,  boiling them slowly
until they are just tender, and no longer; then take them carefully out. Remove
the sirup from the fire, and add to it half a pint of the best 
 brandy  to a pound of 
 peaches. Now pour this over the 
 peaches.  Can them, or put them into jars, well
secured.  
   Apricots and greengages brandied  are made in
the same way.  
 
 
  TO JELLY FRUITS. To
make jelly clear, the  fruit  must be quite fresh, and
all blemishes removed. Have the flannels used for straining perfectly clean and
white. Nearly all jellies are made in the same way, whether 
 currant,   plum,  
 Siberian crab-apple,  
 gooseberry,   quince,  
 apple,   peach,  or 
 grape.  Some add less  sugar  to
the sweeter  fruits.  The first five 
 fruits  mentioned are exceedingly easy to jelly; the 
 grape  is often quite vexatious, with its perverse
inclinations.  Cherries  will not jelly without 
 gelatine.  
 After having freed the  fruit  from all blemishes,
put them into a porcelain  preserving-kettle,  with only
enough clear  water  to keep them from burning at first.
Let them boil slowly until quite soft; then, putting them into a flannel cloth,
press from them all the  juice  possible. Strain the 
 juice  two or three times through a clean cloth; then
return it to the clean  preserving-kettle,  adding a cup
of  sugar  for every cup of 
 juice,  and the beaten  white of an
egg  for the whole. The rule is to boil the sirup (without
stirring) very rapidly for twenty minutes, not counting the minutes until it
begins to boil. The safest rule is to boil it until it runs a little thick upon
the spoon; then let it run through the  jelly-bag  without
pressing it. If there is any fear of the jelly becoming too hard before it all
runs through, place it near the fire. The most convenient 
 jelly-strainer  is made by fastening the four corners of
a flannel cloth to a  filter-stool  (see page 57). If the
first dripping of the jelly is not entirely clear, return it to the strainer
until it runs perfectly limpid. Put the jelly into glasses; and, after it has
become quite firm, cut out little papers to fit the tops, which should be
dipped in brandy. Place over these second papers larger ones, which have been
dipped in the whites of eggs. Press the edges against the sides of the glasses,
to exclude the air. 
 
 
  CURRANT JELLY. Follow
the preceding directions. A jelly of prettier color is obtained by mixing the 
 white and red currants.  Some take the trouble to make
jelly from the  white and red currants  separately,
  then harden it in successive layers in the
glasses. In this way, the jelly has to be made on different days, allowing time
for each layer to harden. Another pretty arrangement is to melt the jelly the
day before it is served at the table, and put it into a little 
 jelly-mold.  The next day it will be quite hard enough to
turn out. 
 
 
  CURRANT JELLY  (from Scribner's Monthly ). 
 "This receipt has three advantages: First, it never fails, as the old plan
is sure to do five times out of eight; secondly, it requires but half the usual
quantity of  sugar,  and so retains the grateful acidity
and peculiar flavor of the  fruit;  thirdly, it is by
far less troublesome than the usual method. Weigh the 
 currants  without taking the trouble to remove the
stems; do not wash them, but carefully remove leaves and whatever may adhere to
them. To each pound of  fruit  allow half the weight of 
 granulated or pure loaf sugar.  Put a few 
 currants  into a porcelain-lined kettle, and press them
with a  potato-masher,  or any thing convenient, in order
to secure sufficient liquid to prevent burning; then add the remainder of the 
 fruit,  and boil freely for twenty minutes, stirring
occasionally to prevent burning. Take out and strain carefully through a
three-cornered bag of strong, close texture, putting the liquid into either
earthen or wooden vessels--never in tin, as the action of the acid on tin
materially affects both color and flavor. When strained, return the liquid to
the kettle, without the trouble of measuring, and let it boil thoroughly for a
moment or so, and then add the  sugar.  The moment the 
 sugar  is entirely dissolved, the jelly is done, and
must be immediately dished, or placed in glasses. It will jelly upon the side
of the cup as it is taken up, leaving no doubt as the result. Gather the 
 fruit  early, as soon as fully ripe, since the pulp
softens and the juice is less rich if allowed to remain long after ripening. In
our climate, the first week in July is usually considered the time to make
currant jelly. Never gather  currants  or other soft or
small seed fruit immediately after a rain for preserving purposes, as they are
greatly impoverished by the moisture absorbed.    In preserving all fruits of
this class,   if they are boiled until tender or transparent
  in a small quantity of 
 water,  and the  sugar  is added
afterward, the hardness of the seeds, so objectionable in small 
 fruits,  will be thus avoided. A delicious jam may be
made of  blackberries,  
 currants,  and  raspberries,  or
with  currants  with a few 
 raspberries  to flavor, by observing the above
suggestion, and adding  sugar,  pound for pound, and
boiling about twenty minutes."  
 
 
  MRS. WALWORTH'S CURRANT
JELLY. This jelly took the premium at the fair, for it was not only of
fine flavor, but of crystal clearness. 
 An equal proportion of  red and white currants  was
placed in the whitest of porcelain kettles, with a very little clear 
 water,  just enough to keep the 
 fruit  from burning at first, and was boiled twenty
minutes, then poured into a  jelly-bag;  this was not
squeezed or touched until a quantity of clear liquid had run through. (The bag
afterward can be well pressed, and the second juice can be made into an
inferior jelly.) To each pint of the first clear liquid was added a pound of 
 loaf-sugar;  it was then returned to the porcelain
kettle (well cleaned), and, after it came to the boiling-point, was boiled
twenty-five minutes. The jelly was again passed through the bag, after being
well cleaned. 
   COMPOTES 
 are fresh fruits boiled when needed, with very little sugar. I consider it a
pity to cook or stew peaches, when they are so much better fresh, with sugar
sprinkled over them and half-frozen. And what a destruction of fine pears!
However, 
 compotes  are much appreciated and used in France. I
value 
 compotes  of apples, however, and also of inferior
hard pears. The first two of the receipts are from  Professor
Blot.  
 
  SIRUP FOR COMPOTES. A
pound of  sugar  in a porcelain 
 stew-pan,  with a pint of 
 water, a wine-glass of  brandy, 
and a small piece of grated  cinnamon.  Set it on a slow
fire, skimming off the foam; boil it for ten minutes; then, after cooling,
bottle it, and by cooking well it will keep for months in a cool, dry
place. 
  
 
  COMPOTE OF PEACHES AND
APRICOTS. Cut the  fruit  in two; take out the
stones; throw them into  boiling water  (a very little 
 lemon  added) for two minutes; then throw them into 
 cold or ice water,  taking them out immediately. This
makes them white. Then peel them. Put a pint of 
 water into a porcelain pan, and set it on a good fire;
when boiling-hot, put in the  apricots  or 
 peaches,  and skim off the foam; as soon as soft, take
them out, place them on a dish, and pour over sirup. 
 
 
  COMPOTE OF
APPLES. Quarter, peel, core, and cook 
 apples in a  stew-pan,  with a
little  water  and  sugar.  Take
out the apples  when cooked. Boil down the sirup (adding
sliced lemon  and some  raisins )
to a jelly; then pour it over the  apples.  
 Brandy  added improves it. 
 
 
  A BEAUTIFUL STUFFED
COMPOTE. Choose large fine  pippins  of equal
size; pare them, and take out the cores, leaving the 
 apples  entire; cook them about three parts done in 
 sirup;  drain and bake them a few moments in a quick
oven. When they are done and still hot, fill the interior with 
 peach marmalade.  Now roll each 
 apple  in jelly produced by boiling down the sirup used
to boil the  apples;  this will give the 
 apples  a beautiful gloss. Dish them in pyramidal form;
put  cream,  or  whipped
cream, or a little  maraschino,  around the
base. Or, form them into dome, and pour over them a  m&#233;ringue  of beaten  whites of
eggs  and  sugar,  sticking regularly over
the top  sweet almonds  cut into four lengths (same
size); put it into the oven to brown. This looks like the apple hedgehog. Or,
pour among the  apples,  before pouring over the 
 m&#233;ringue,  a  marmalade of
apples  or boiled  rice.  
     PICKLES AND CATCHUPS. 
 
  PICKLES, FOR COUNTRY USE  ( Mrs. Shaw ). 
 Make a  brine  strong enough to bear the weight of an
egg. Into this put  cucumbers  fresh from the garden.
They will  keep in this 
 brine  indefinitely. Whenever fresh 
 pickles  are wanted, take out as many as are desired
from the  brine,  and let them soak in fresh 
 water  two days, changing the 
 water  once. Now put two quarts of the best 
 cider vinegar  (to fifty 
 cucumbers ) on the fire in a porcelain kettle, with one
ounce of  whole pepper,  half an ounce of 
 mustard-seed,  one ounce of 
 ginger  sliced, half an ounce of 
 mace,  a small stalk of 
 horseradish,  a piece of 
 alum the size of a large pea, and half cup of 
 sugar.  Tie up the  spices  in
three muslin bags. Boil all together ten minutes; then pour all over the
pickles. It is not necessary to scald the  cucumbers, 
yet many do so, putting them into the kettle, with the 
 vinegar  and  spices  when cold,
and covering the bottom, sides, and top closely with  cabbage
leaves,  which improve color. If they are not green enough at the
first scalding, scald them a second time, with fresh leaves around. 
 This receipt is especially desirable for people living in the country,
because, having many vines, the  cucumbers  of any size
preferred can be picked each day, washed, and put into the 
 brine.  
 
 
  INDIAN
PICKLE. Ingredients: To every gallon of 
 vinegar  put four ounces of  curry
powder,  four ounces of  mustard
powder, three ounces of bruised  ginger, 
two drams of  Cayenne pepper,  two ounces of 
 turmeric,  two ounces of 
 garlic,  half a pound of 
 onions  (skinned), and a quarter of a pound of 
 salt.  
 Put all into a stone jar. Cover it with a bladder wet with the pickle, and
keep it warm by the fire for three days, shaking it well three times a day. Any
thing may be put into this preparation, excepting red cabbage and walnuts.
Gather every thing fresh, such as small  cucumbers,  
 green grapes,   green tomatoes, 
 cauliflowers,  small  onions,  
 nasturtiums,   string
beans, etc., etc. Wipe them, cut them when too large, and throw
them fresh into the  vinegar.  
 
 
  CHOWCHOW PICKLE  ( Miss Beltzhoover ). 
 Ingredients: One peck of  green tomatoes,  half a
peck of ripe  tomatoes,  half a dozen 
 onions,  three  heads of
cabbage,  one dozen  green peppers,  and
three  red peppers.   
 Chop them any size you choose, then sprinkle half a pint of 
 salt  over them. Put them into a coarse cotton bag. Let
them drain twenty-four hours. Put them into a kettle, with three pounds of 
 brown sugar,  half a tea-cupful of grated 
 horseradish,  one table-spoonful each of 
 ground black pepper,   ground
mustard,   white mustard,  
 mace,  and  celery seed.  Cover
all with  vinegar,  and boil till clear. 
 
 
  TO PICKLE
CAULIFLOWERS. Cut the  cauliflowers  into
little flowerets of equal size. Throw them into boiling  salted
water.  Place them at the back of the range, and when they are just
about to boil take them off and drain them. Put them into jars. Boil (about
fifteen minutes) enough  vinegar  to well cover them,
seasoning it with one ounce of  nutmeg,  one ounce of 
 mustard-seed,  and half an ounce of 
 mace  to three quarts of 
 vinegar.  Pour this hot over the 
 cauliflowers,  adding a little 
 sweet-oil  the last thing, to cover the top. Cover
them, while warm, with a bladder or fine leather over their corks. 
 
 
  PICKLED
WALNUTS. Ingredients: One hundred  walnuts,  
 salt and water,  one gallon of 
 vinegar,  two ounces of whole  black
pepper,  half an ounce of  cloves,  one
ounce of  allspice,  one ounce of  root
ginger  sliced, one ounce of  mace.  
 Gather the  walnuts  in July, when they are full
grown. They should be soft enough to be pierced all through with a needle.
Prick them all well through. Let them remain nine days in 
 brine  (four pounds of  salt  to
each gallon of  water ), changing the 
 brine  every third day. Drain them, and let them remain
in the sun two or three days until they become black. Put them into jars, not
quite filling them. Boil the  vinegar  and 
 spices  together ten minutes, and pour the liquid over
the  walnuts.  They will be fit for use in a month, and
will keep for years. 
 
 
  PICKLED GREEN TOMATOES AND
ONIONS ( Mrs. Monks ). 
 Chop one peck of  green tomatoes,  and half a peck of
 onions.  Let them stand two days in layers of 
 salt.  Bring  vinegar  (enough
just to cover them) to the boiling-point. Put in the vegetables, mixed with  cloves 
(one ounce),  allspice  (one ounce),  white
mustard-seed  (two ounces), and  red
peppers  (five large ones shredded). When well scalded, they are
ready to be put in jars. 
 
 
  PICKLED ONIONS. Select
small silver-skinned  onions.  After taking off the
outside skins, remove with a knife one more skin, when each 
 onion  should look quite clear. Put them into strong 
 brine  for three days. Bring 
 vinegar  to a boil with one or two blades of 
 mace  and some whole  red
peppers.  Pour it hot over the  onions  well
drained from the  brine.  
 
 
  PICKLED BELL
PEPPERS. Cut a slit in the side of each 
 pepper,  and take out all the seeds. Let them soak in 
 brine  (strong enough to float an egg) two days. Then,
washing them in  cold water,  put them into a stone jar.
Pour over them  vinegar  boiled with 
 cinnamon,   mace,  and 
 nutmeg.  Whenever they are wanted to be served, stuff
each one with a boiled  tongue  cut into dice, and mixed
with a   Mayonnaise 
dressing. Or little  mangoes  may be made,
stuffing each one with  pickled nasturtiums,  
 grapes, minced  onions,  
 red cabbage  or cucumbers, 
seasoned with  mustard-seed,   root
ginger, and  mace.  
 
 
  RIPE CUCUMBER
PICKLES. Pare and seed ripe  cucumbers.  Slice
each  cucumber  lengthwise into four pieces, or cut it
into fancy shapes, as preferred. Let them stand twenty-four hours covered with
cold  vinegar.  Drain them: then put them into fresh 
 vinegar,  with two pounds of 
 sugar,  and one ounce of 
 cassia-buds  to one quart of 
 vinegar.  Boil all together twenty minutes. Cover them
closely in a jar. 
 
 
  SWEET PICKLED
PEACHES. To seven pounds of  peaches  allow
three and three-quarter pounds of  sugar,  one quart of 
 vinegar,  two ounces of 
 cloves,  and two ounces of 
 stick-cinnamon.  Pare the 
 peaches,  and stick one or two 
 cloves  into each one. Boil the 
 sugar  and  vinegar,  with
several sticks of  cinnamon,  for five minutes, then
  put in the  peaches. 
When cooked till thoroughly done, take them out. Boil the 
 sirup,  reducing it to nearly half, and pour it over
the  peaches.  
 
 
  STRAWBERRY
PICKLE. Ingredients: Seven pounds of 
 strawberries,  three and a half pounds of 
 brown sugar,  one and a half pints of  cider
vinegar,  one ounce of  cloves,  one ounce
of  stick-cinnamon.  Place the 
 strawberries  and  spices  in
alternate layers in a deep dish. Boil the  sugar  and 
 vinegar  three minutes, and pour it over them, letting
them remain until the next day. The second day pour the liquor off and boil it
again three minutes, returning it, as before, to the 
 strawberries.  Let them remain until the third day,
when boil all together over a slow fire for half an hour. Put it away in
jars. 
 
 
  TOMATO CATCHUP. Boil
one bushel of  tomatoes  in porcelain kettle until soft;
press them through a sieve; then add half a gallon of 
 vinegar,  two ounces of 
 cloves,  one and a half pints of 
 salt,  one ounce of  Cayenne
pepper,  five heads of  garlic  (skinned and
chopped), two ounces of  whole pepper,  one pound of 
 allspice,  five ounces of 
 mace,  and five ounces of  celery
seed.  Mix all together; and boil until it is reduced to half.
Strain, and bottle it. 
 
 
  TOMATO CATCHUP  ( Mrs. Cramer, of Troy ). 
 Ingredients: One peck of  tomatoes,  two quarts of 
 vinegar,  five table-spoonfuls of 
 mustard,  five table-spoonfuls of 
 salt,  four table-spoonfuls of  black
pepper,  two table-spoonfuls of 
 cloves, three table-spoonfuls of 
 allspice,  and two tea-spoonfuls of  red
pepper.  
 Let it boil an hour. Strain it through a sieve. 
 
 
  GOOSEBERRY CATCHUP  ( Mrs. Shaw ). 
 Ingredients: Three pounds of  fruit,  four pounds of 
 sugar,  one pint of 
 vinegar, two ounces of  cloves, 
and two ounces of  cinnamon.  
 Boil all four hours. Bottle it. 
  
 
  CUCUMBER CATCHUP. Grate
the  cucumbers,  and strain off the 
 water  through a  colander.  Add
six large  onions  (chopped very fine) to a gallon of
the grated and strained  cucumbers.  Add 
 vinegar,   salt,  
 Cayenne pepper,  and 
 horse-radish  to taste. Bottle it without cooking. 
    CHEESE. 
 IN England, and at almost every well-appointed table in America, cheese is a
positive necessity to a good table. Brillat Savarin, in his "Physiologie du
Gout," says, "Un beau diner sans vieux fromage est une jolie femme &#224; qui
il manque un &#x0153;il." 
 Among the best cheeses of England are the Stilton and Cheshire; of France,
are those of Neufchatel, Brie ( fromage de Brie ),
and the fromage de Roquefort.  The 
 fromage de Roquefort  is, perhaps, one of the most
popular of all cheeses. The Gruy&#232;re cheese of Switzerland is also a
well-known cheese. It is made from new milk, and flavored with a powdered herb.
In serving this cheese, French mustard, pepper, and salt are usually passed at
the same time. The Roquefort cheese is made of a mixture of sheep's and goat's
milk: the first communicates consistence and quality; the latter, whiteness and
a peculiar flavor. The Parmesan (an Italian cheese) is made of skimmed milk. It
is a high-flavored and hard cheese, and is not sent to market until it is six
months old, and is often kept for three or four years. It is extensively used,
grated, for cooking. The Stilton cheese is made by adding the cream of the
preceding evening's milk to the morning's milking, producing a very rich and
creamy quality. This cheese is preferred by epicures when it is old, after
having been buried for some time in tin cans to become moldy. The Cheshire is
made with rich new milk. This cheese can be appreciated without cultivating a
taste for it. 
 Our American cheeses, since the introduction of the factory system, are
exported in immense quantities to England, where they are much sought for, and considered by epicures as great
luxuries. This is generally astonishing to Americans abroad, who, at home,
often consider it only in rule to offer guests cheese of foreign manufacture. I
think, however, in comparison with our own, the celebrated foreign cheese have
one advantage. The latter take the name of the exact locality where they are
manufactured; consequently, when people speak of a Stilton or a 
 fromage de Brie  they know exactly of what they are
talking; not so of American cheese. American cheese means that which may be
superior, good, bad, or indifferent: it is too general a name. America has
hundreds of cheese manufactories, and not a famous one; although many of them
make that which do credit to America as the greatest cheese-making country in
the world, if only these best specimens were more generally known. 
 I have taken great pains in trying to decide which of many samples is the
best American cheese, and have decided upon one made in Otsego County, New
York, which is called the "England dairy" cheese. Before proceeding any
further, I shall enter may protest against the name. Why do they not call it
Otsego cheese? If it were eaten in London, an Englishman would certainly
flatter himself that it was made in England. If they will only change the name,
then, I will take more pleasure in saying that the Otsego cheese is undoubtedly
one of the best specimens of American cheeses. It has a dark-yellow color, is
very rich, and highly flavored. 
 The pastures of Otsego County are exceptionally fine, and its general
advantages of climate, etc., render its locality one of the best adapted for
the manufacture of cheese. 
 One of the best specimens of cheese of a milder character, white and
well-flavored, is made at Milan, Cayuga County, New York, the name of which
might be Cayuga cheese. 
 Perhaps the cheapest of the foreign famous cheeses is the Neufchatel. It
comes in little rolls about an inch thick and three inches long, is enveloped
in tin-foil, and costs about twenty cents a roll. Two rolls are quite
sufficient for a large dinner. It is a delicious cheese. Care must be taken,
however, when purchasing, to ascertain that it is not musty. 
 
 The tariff may be saved by purchasing the Neufchatel manufactured in New
Jersey and Westchester County, New York. As for that, the Stilton made in
Cayuga County can hardly be detected from the Leicestershire manufacture
itself; and, in fact, nearly all the famous cheeses are very perfectly imitated
in America, so that those who choose may indulge in foreign names and encourage
home manufacture at the same time. 
 In serving Stilton cheese, the top should be cut off to form a cover, and
then the cheese should be neatly surrounded with a napkin. Whenever the cheese
is taken from the table, the cover should be replaced. 
 Cheeses are generally cut into little squares and passed in a glass
cheese-dish. No morsel of dried cheese should ever be thrown away, as it can be
used grated for macaroni, cheese omelets, etc. 
 Cheese should form a course at dinner. For further particulars concerning
cheese as a course, see page 345. 
 
  WELSH RARE-BIT. 
 Toast  carefully thin square or diamond-shaped slices
of  bread,  with the crust removed. While hot, 
 butter  them slightly; then dip them for a moment in a
pan containing enough  hot water  to half cover them;
they should be only slightly moistened. Now place each slice on a separate hot
plate, allowing one slice for each person at table; sprinkle over a little 
 salt,  and pour over them enough melted 
 cheese  to cover them. Select rich, new 
 cheese,  as it is more easily melted. It can be melted
in a little cup. It should not be made until almost ready to serve, as the
moment it is finished it should be eaten; otherwise the 
 cheese  will harden, the 
 toast will become cold, and the dish altogether will be
quite ruined. 
 This is a favorite dish for gentlemen's suppers or for lunch; yet it is
sometimes served at dinner for a  cheese  course by
itself, or for decorating a platter of macaroni with cheese. 
 This simple receipt is decidedly the best one, I think; yet some spread also
a little  mustard  over the 
 toast,  and others add a little 
 ale  to the melted 
 cheese. Sometimes the  toast 
may be dipped into  ale  instead of  hot
water,  and some serve a  poached
  egg on each slice of Welsh rare-bit;
still others mix the  yolks of eggs  into the 
 cheese  when melted. 
 The Welsh rare-bit makes a decidedly pretty course, served in little 
 chafing-dishes  in silver, or plated silver, about four
inches square, one of which, standing in a plate, is to be served to each
person at table. The reservoir contains boiling-hot water; the little platter
holds the slice of Welsh rare-bit, which is thus kept hot. 
 
 
  COTTAGE CHEESE. Place a
pan of  clabbered sour milk  over the fire, and let it
become well scalded; then, pouring it into a clean cloth, squeeze out all the
water, leaving the  clabber  quite dry. Put this into a
kitchen basin, and work it with the hands, making it a little moist by adding 
 cream.  Add also a little 
 butter  and plenty of 
 salt; mold it into little balls. 
 
 
  RAMEKINS  ( Ramequins &#224; la Ude, Cook to Louis XVI. ) 
 Ingredients: Four ounces of grated high-flavored 
 cheese,  two ounces of 
 butter, two ounces of  bread 
(without crust), a scant gill of  milk,  one-third of a
tea-spoonful of  mustard,  one-third of a tea-spoonful
of  salt,  small pinch of  Cayenne
pepper,   yolks of two eggs, whites  of
three. 
 Crumb the  bread,  and boil it soft in the 
 milk;  add the  butter,  
 mustard,   salt,  
 pepper,   cheese,  and the 
 yolks of the eggs;  beat thoroughly; then stir in the 
 whites of the eggs,  beaten to a stiff froth. Pour this
into little round  paper cases  (see page 61), which
require only a few minutes to make; fill each one about three-quarters full;
bake the paste about five or six minutes, when it should be puffed high above
the edge of the paper. Serve the ramekins immediately, or they will fall. A
good  cheese  course for dinner, and nice for lunch or
supper. 
 
 
  RAMEKINS, WITH ALE  ( Warne ). 
 Ingredients: Four ounces of  cheese,  two ounces of
fresh  butter,  half a  French
roll,  two  eggs,  half a cupful of 
 cream,  half a wine-glassful of good 
 ale.  
 Boil the roll and  cream  together until quite
smooth; rub the  grated cheese  and the 
 butter  smoothly together; then mix all,
  adding the  ale  and the 
 yolks of the eggs  well beaten. When the paste is
smooth, stir in the  whites of the eggs  beaten to a
stiff froth; put the mixture into  paper cases;  bake
about fifteen minutes, and serve very hot. *  
 
 
  PASTRY RAMEKINS  ( Warne ). 
 Ingredients: Some good  cheese,   puff
paste,  the  yolk of one egg.  
 Take some  puff paste,  and roll it out rather thin;
strew over it some good  grated cheese,  and fold it
over; repeat this three times, rolling it out each time; then cut the ramekins
with a  paste-cutter  in any form you please, brush them
over with the  yolk of a well-beaten egg,  and bake them
in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. When done, serve them quickly on a
hot napkin. 
    SWEET
SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. 
 
  BUTTER SAUCE  ( Mrs. Youmans ). 
 Ingredients: Three-quarters of a cupful of 
 butter, one and a half cupfuls of  powdered
sugar,  four table-spoonfuls of boiling-hot 
 starch,  made of  flour  or 
 corn starch,  with either 
 brandy,   maraschino,  
 wine,   lemon-juice and zest,  
 vanilla,  or other flavoring preferred. Stir the 
 butter  with a fork to a light cream; add the 
 sugar,  and continue to beat it for one or two minutes.
Just before serving, stir in with an  egg-whisk  the
boiling  starch  and the flavoring. 
 
 
  SIRUP SAUCES. Boil two
cupfuls of  sugar  with two or three table-spoonfuls of 
 water,  until it thickens slightly; take it from the
fire; stir in a piece of  butter  the size of a
hickory-nut, and either  lemon-juice,  
 fruit-juice,  or, in winter,  fruit
sirups,   wine,  
 brandy,  or any of the  flavoring
extracts.  
  The following note appears at the bottom of page 266 in the
original text. 
 *Five or six minutes will suffice for baking
them.--ED. 
 
   A
PLAIN AND CHEAP SAUCE.  Ingredients: Three and a half cupfuls of 
 water,  one cupful  of 
 sugar,  a small piece of 
 butter,  a table-spoonful of either  corn
starch  or  flour,  flavoring of either 
 brandy,   vanilla,  
 lemon,  or  wine  (with or
without a little  nutmeg ), or 
 zest  and  cinnamon.  
 When the  water  boils, stir in the  corn
starch  or  flour  (rubbed smooth with a
little  cold water ), 
 sugar, and, if used, the  yellow rind of a
lemon  and the  cinnamon,  and cook well for
two or three minutes; take the pan from the fire, and stir in the 
 butter  and  flavoring  (if the 
 lemon and cinnamon  are not used). 
 
 
   SAME SAUCE,
RICHER   ( Mrs.
Osborne ). 
 Ingredients: One pint of  water,  three
table-spoonfuls of  flour  or  corn
starch,  half a cupful of  butter,  two
cupfuls of  sugar,  two 
 eggs, half of a  nutmeg,  half a
pint of  Madeira  or 
 sherry.  
 Beat the  butter  and 
 sugar to a cream; add the  eggs 
well beaten, then the  nutmeg;  heat the 
 wine  as hot as possible without boiling; bring the 
 water  to a boil in another vessel, and stir in the 
 corn starch  or  flour  (rubbed
smooth with a little  cold water ), and cook it well for
about two minutes. Mix well the ingredients off the fire. 
 
 
  WHIPPED-CREAM SAUCE  ( Mrs. Embry, Kentucky ). 
 Mix a plateful of  whipped cream  (flavored with 
 wine  or  vanilla ), the beaten 
 whites of two or three eggs,  and 
 pulverized sugar  to taste, all together. Pile a bank
of this mixture in the centre of a platter, and form a circle of little 
 fruit puddings  or  Swedish
puddings  (steamed in cups or little molds), 
 blanc-manges,   corn-starch
puddings,  etc., around it; or place a large pudding in the
ingredient, with a circle of the  sauce  around. 
 
 
   FRUIT SAUCES.  The  French
bottled apricots,   greengage plums,  or 
 strawberries  make delicious sauces for a Bavarian
cream, 
 blanc-mange,  
 charlotte-russe,  or corn-starch pudding. They may
simply be poured around the pudding on a platter, or the 
 juice  may be thickened by boiling it with a very
little  corn-starch,  then adding the 
 fruit  to it when cold. 
  The  American canned May-duke cherries  (
 Shrivers ) make a good pudding sauce. Boil the 
 juice,  and add the slight  corn-
 starch  thickening and a little 
 sugar;  when cold, add the 
 cherries.  It makes a good sauce poured around these
puddings.  
  Fresh  red cherries,  stewed, sweetened,
passed through a sieve, and slightly thickened with  corn
starch,  make another pudding sauce.   The
Colorado  wild raspberries  make a fine berry pudding,
with the same kind of berry sauce around it.   
 Marmalades  and  preserves,  if
not too stiff, make pretty garnishes as well as good sauces.  
 
 
  STRAWBERRY SAUCE ( for Baked Puddings ). Ingredients: Half a cupful
of  butter,  one cupful of 
 sugar,  the beaten  white of an
egg,  and one cupful of 
 strawberries (mashed). 
 Rub  butter  and  sugar  to a
cream; add the beaten  white of the egg,  and the 
 strawberries  thoroughly mashed. 
 
 
  BOILED CUSTARD makes a
good sauce. If served with plum-pudding, flavor it with 
 brandy;  if served with rice-pudding (in mold) or corn
starch or other puddings, flavor it with  lemon,  
 vanilla,   chocolate,  or 
 coffee,  etc., etc. 
 
 
  A GOOD SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS  ( Miss Amelia Foote ). 
 Ingredients: Half a cupul of  butter,  one cupful of 
 sugar,   white of one egg,  two
table-spoonfuls of  wine,  a little 
 vanilla,  and half a wine-glassful of 
 boiling water.  
 Beat the  butter  and 
 sugar for about fifteen minutes; then add the
flavoring. Just before sending to the table, add the 
 egg,  beaten to a froth, and stir in the
 boiling water,  beating it to a foam; or it may be
flavored with  brandy  or 
 wine, without the vanilla. 
 
 
  SABYLLON. This is a
French pudding sauce, and an exceedingly good one. It is so rich that one or
two table-spoonfuls poured over a fruit, batter, bread, or almost any kind of
pudding, are sufficient. The amount of sauce in the receipt is, therefore,
enough for six or seven persons. 
 Put two  yolks  and one whole 
 egg,  also a scant half tea-cupful of 
 sugar,  into a little 
 stew-pan; beat them well for a few minutes.
  Then put the saucepan into another, containing 
 boiling water,  over the fire; beat the 
 eggs  briskly with the  egg-whisk 
while you gradually pour in a scant half tea-cupful of 
 sherry;  when the  sherry  is
all in, the  egg will begin to thicken; then take it
from the fire, and add the  juice of a quarter of a small
lemon.  
 
 
  CARAMEL SAUCE  ( New York Cooking-school ). 
 Dissolve six ounces of cut  loaf-sugar  in half a
pint of  boiling water;  add a stick of 
 cinnamon,  a little 
 lemon-zest,  and two 
 cloves, and boil it ten minutes. Next put two ounces of
 loaf-sugar,  dissolved in a table-spoonful of 
 boiling water,  on a moderate fire, and stir it until
it assumes a light brown color; pour the other  boiled
sugar  over this; give it one boil, remove it from the fire, and
add two or three table-spoonfuls of  sherry.  
    PUDDINGS AND CUSTARDS. 
 
  PLUM-PUDDING, WITH RUM OR
BRANDY ( Gouff&#232; ) 
 TAKE three-quarters of a pound of chopped 
 suet, three-quarters of a pound of stoned 
 raisins, three-quarters of a pound of 
 currants,  quarter of a pound of 
 citron,  three-quarters of a pound of 
 sugar,  three-quarters of a pound of 
 bread-crumbs,  two  apples  cut
into small dice, and the grated  peel of a lemon;  mix
the whole in a basin, with  A flaming plum pudding
served on a round platter.  three pounded 
 cloves,  a pinch of  salt,  six 
 eggs,  and half a gill of 
 rum or  brandy.  Butter a 
 pudding-mold,  fill it with the mixture, and tie a cloth
over the top. Place a plate at the bottom of a kettle which is three-parts full
of  boiling water.  Put the pudding in, and boil for
four hours, keeping the pot replenished with  boiling
water.  Turn out the pudding on a hot dish; sprinkle over it 
 sugar.  Pour over half a pint of warm 
 rum  or  brandy,  and light it
when putting the pudding on the table.  
   German Sauce. --Made with eight 
 yolks of eggs,  quarter of a pound of 
 sugar,  three gills of 
 Madeira,  and the  grated peel of half a
lemon.  Stir it over the fire until the spoon is coated. Serve in a
boat. Or serve a common  brandy sauce,  or the same kind
of  sauce  flavored with  rum, if
 rum  should be used in the pudding.  
 
 
  PLUM-PUDDING  ( Mrs. General Sherman ). 
 Ingredients: One cupful of  butter,  one cupful of 
 sugar,  half of cupful of 
 cream,  half a cupful of 
 rum, one cupful of  ale,  one
cupful of  suet  (chopped), one cupful of 
 fruit  ( currants  and 
 raisins ), half a cupful of  candied
orange  cut fine, six  eggs  well beaten,
two grated  nutmegs,  one tea-spoonful of ground 
 cinnamon,  half a tea-spoonful of ground 
 cloves,   bread-crumbs.  
 Beat the  butter  and 
 sugar together to a cream. The 
 bread-crumbs  should be dried thoroughly, and passed
through a sieve. Beat all well together before adding the 
 bread-crumbs,  then add enough of them to give proper
consistency. Put the pudding into a tin mold (not quite filling it), and boil
it four hours. 
  The Sauce. --Use equal quantities of 
 butter  and  sugar.  Cream the 
 butter,  then add the 
 sugar, beating them both until very light. Add then the
beaten  yolk of an egg,  and a little grated 
 nutmeg.  Heat on the fire a large wine-glassful of 
 sherry wine  diluted with the same quantity of 
 water,  and when just beginning to boil, stir it into
the  butter  and  sugar.  
 
 
  PUDDING WITH REMAINS OF
PLUM-PUDDING. Line a   charlotte mold  or basin with slices of cold 
 plum pudding,  cut so that they will fit closely
together. Fill the inside with a sufficient quantity of  gelatine
pudding (see page 272). Set it in a cool place to stiffen. Turn out
the 
 charlotte  on a dish, with a  brandy
sauce  on the bottom. 
 
 
  PLAINER FRUIT
PUDDING. Ingredients: One cupful of 
 sugar, one-quarter of a pound of 
 raisins,  one cupful of 
 butter,  one half-pound of  English
currants,  three and a half cupfuls of 
 flour,  a little  citron sliced,
four  eggs,  the  whites and 
 yolks  beaten separately. Put one tea-spoonful
  of  saleratus  with one
half-cupful of  cream.  
 Flour the  raisins,  
 currants,  and  citron  before
adding to the mixture. 
 Boil it three hours in a floured cloth, or in buttered forms, large or
small. Pour some  brandy  on top, and set it on fire
just before taking to the dining-room. Serve with 
 brandy-sauce.  
 
 
  SUET-PUDDING  ( Mrs. Gratz Brown ). 
 Ingredients: One cupful of  suet  chopped fine, one
cupful of  molasses,  one cupful of  sweet
milk,  one cupful of  raisins,  one
tea-spoonful of  salt,  one small teaspoonful of 
 soda  mixed in the 
 molasses, three and a half cupfuls of 
 flour.  
 Boil in a bag or form three hours; or, better, steam it. It may be steamed
in  tea-cups,  filling them a little more than half full.
Serve with  brandy-sauce.  
 
 
  PRUNE-PUDDING  ( Grace Greenwood ). 
 This is the same as the suet-pudding, excepting that one half-pound of 
 prunes  and one half-pound of  English
currants  are substituted for the raisins. 
 
 
  EVE'S PUDDING  ( Mrs. Frank Blair ). 
 Ingredients: Six ounces of  bread-crumbs,  six ounces
of  sugar,  six ounces of 
 raisins  or  currants,  six
ounces of  butter  cut in small pieces, or 
 beef suet  chopped fine, six large 
 apples  chopped, one table-spoonful of 
 flour,  six  eggs,  one
table-spoonful of  cinnamon,  one tea-spoonful of ground
 cloves.  
  Flour  the  fruit.  Mix 
 eggs  and  sugar  together, and
the  suet  and  apples;  then mix
all, adding the beaten  whites of the eggs  the last
thing. Boil it in a form or bag three hours, or bake it two hours. Serve with 
 brandy-sauce.  
 
 
  A SPICED
APPLE-PUDDING. Ingredients: Three tea-cupfuls of 
 bread-crumbs,  three tea-cupfuls of 
 apples  chopped, one tea-cupful of 
 sugar,  one-quarter of a pound of 
 raisins,  perhaps a little 
 citron,  two table-spoonfuls of 
 brandy,  one table-spoonful of ground 
 cinnamon,  half a tea-spoonful of ground 
 cloves,  one tea-spoonful of 
 mace,  two or three  eggs beaten
separately.  
 Cook the  bread-crumbs  a few minutes with a pint of 
 milk  before adding the other ingredients; add the 
 whites of the eggs  the last thing before baking. Bake
half an hour, if the oven is quite hot. Serve with any  sweet
sauce.  
 
 
  COTTAGE-PUDDING. Ingredients: One cupful of 
 sugar,  one and one-half cupfuls of 
 flour,  one table-spoonful of 
 butter,  one half-cupful of 
 milk,  two  eggs  beaten
separately, one tea-spoonful of  baking-powder,  or one
half-tea-spoonful of  soda,  and one tea-spoonful of 
 cream of tartar.   Brandy or wine
sauce.  
 
 
  MINUTE-PUDDING. Ingredients: One quart of 
 milk,   salt,  two 
 eggs,  about a pint of 
 flour.  
 Beat the  eggs  well; add the 
 flour  and enough  milk  to make
it smooth.  Butter  the saucepan, and put in the
remainder of the  milk  well salted; when it boils, stir
in the  flour,   eggs,  etc.,
lightly; let it cook well. It should be of the consistency of thick corn mush.
Serve immediately with the following simple 
 sauce, viz.,  milk  sweetened to
taste, and flavored with grated  nutmeg.  
 
 
  NANTUCKET
BERRY-PUDDING. Ingredients: one pint of grated  cold boiled
potatoes,  one pint of  flour,  one quarter
of a pound of  butter,  one tea-spoonful of 
 salt,  and almost any kind of 
 berries.  
 Wet these with  milk  or 
 water  to the consistency of soft biscuit-dough; roll
it; spread with  blackberries,  
 raspberries,   cherries,  or
stewed dry  berries.  Roll, fasten in a cloth, and steam
it an hour and a quarter. Serve with any  sweet
pudding-sauce.  
 
 
  GELATINE-PUDDING  ( Miss Colby, of Rochester ). 
 Separate the  whites and yolks of four eggs.  With
the  yolks  make a  boiled
custard  (with a pint of  milk,  and 
 sugar  to taste). Set a third of a box of 
 gelatine  to soak a few minutes in a little 
 cold water,  then dissolve it with three-fourths of a
cupful of  boiling water.  When the custard has cooled,
add the  gelatine water  and the  whites of
the eggs  beaten to a stiff  froth;
flavor with  vanilla,  stir all together, and put it
into a mold or molds. It will settle into three layers, and is a very pretty
pudding, tasting much like a 
 charlotte-russe.  A pretty effect can be obtained by
using  Coxe's 
 pink  gelatine.  
 
 
  TAPIOCA-PUDDING. Pare
and core (with a tube) six or seven  apples;  lay them
in a buttered dish. Pour over a cupful of  tapioca  or 
 sage  one quart of  boiling
water;  let it stand an hour; add two tea-cupfuls of 
 sugar,  a little  lemon,  
 vanilla,  or  wine;  pour this
over the  apples,  and bake an hour. 
 Peaches  (fresh or canned) may be substituted, and are
an improvement. 
 
 
  TAPIOCA CREAM. Soak a
tea-cupful of  tapioca  overnight in 
 milk.  The next day, stir into it the  yolks
of three eggs  well beaten and a cupful of 
 sugar.  Place a quart of 
 milk on the fire, let it come to the boiling-point, and
then stir in the  tapioca,  and let the whole cook until
it has thickened; then take it off the fire, and stir in the  whites
of the eggs  beaten to a froth. Flavor to taste. A small portion of
the beaten  whites of the eggs  can be saved to decorate
the top. Stir into the latter a little  sugar,  put it
into a paper funnel, press it out over the top of the pudding according to
fancy, and place it in the oven a few moments to color. 
 
 
  CABINET-PUDDING  ( Mrs. Pope ). 
  Butter  a mold well; line the bottom with 
 raisins  and with  citron  cut
into fancy shapes; cover this with pieces of  cake, then
more  raisins  and 
 citron, alternating with the cake, until the mold is
full to  A cylindrical pudding served on a round
platter.  within an inch and a half of the top. Mix
in a bowl three table-spoonfuls of  sugar  and the 
 yolks of three eggs  until they are a cream; then mix
in slowly a pint of  milk  just brought to the
boiling-point. Pour this over the cake, etc., in the mold. Put this into a pan
of  cold water,  so that the  water  may cover one-third of the
mold. Set it over the fire until the  water  boils; then
put the whole into the oven to bake an hour. Serve with 
 wine-sauce.  
 
 
  BATTER-PUDDING
BAKED. Ingredients: One quart of sifted 
 flour,   butter  the size of an
egg, one pint of  milk,  half a tea-spoonful of 
 salt,  four  eggs.  
 Scald the  milk,  and melt the 
 butter  in it. When partly cooled, stir in the 
 yolks of the eggs  well beaten, then the 
 salt  and  flour.  When quite
cold, stir in lightly the  whites of the eggs  beaten to
a stiff froth. Bake in rather large  patty-pans.  Serve
immediately with a  sauce.  The puddings should be light
puffs.  Strawberry-sauce  is especially nice with these
puddings. 
 
 
  ROLY-POLY PUDDING
BOILED. Make a  biscuit dough  and roll it out
into a square about a fourth of an inch thick. Spread over it (leaving an inch
uncovered at the edges) almost any kind of  fruit,  or 
 berries,  such as 
 strawberries,  
 raspberries, etc., sweetened, or 
 preserves.  Roll it tight. Sew it in a cloth, giving
room for it to swell. Boil or steam it an hour. Serve with almost any kind of 
 pudding sauce.  A nice roly-poly pudding may be made
with  sponge cake  baked in sheets, spread with 
 preserves  or  jelly,  rolled,
sprinkled on top with  sugar,  and served with 
 wine-sauce.  
 
 
  BAKED BERRY ROLLS. Roll
 biscuit-dough  thin, in the form of a large square, or
into small squares. Spread over with  berries.  Roll the
crust, and put the rolls into a  dripping-pan  close
together until full; then put into the pan  water,  
 sugar,  and pieces of 
 butter. Bake them. Serve any of the pudding sauces. 
 
 
  SWEDISH
PUDDING. Ingredients: One half-pound of 
 flour,  one half-pound of 
 butter,  half-pound of 
 sugar, eight  eggs,  a little 
 salt.  
 Rub the  sugar  and  butter to
a cream; add the  yolks  well beaten, the 
 salt,   flour,  and, lastly, the
 whites of the eggs  beaten to a stiff froth. Put the
batter three-fourths of an inch deep  into 
 tea-cups.  Cook by steaming them in a 
 steamer  about half an hour. The batter will fill the
cups. Turn them out on a hot platter. Serve immediately with a clear 
 brandy-sauce  in the bottom of the dish. Half the above
amount will be sufficient for a small family. 
 
 
  CHERRY-PUDDING  ( Mrs. Bonner ). 
 Ingredients: Two  eggs,  one cupful of 
 sweet milk,  three tea-spoonfuls of  yeast
powder,   flour  to make a stiff batter, as
many  cherries  or  fruit  of any
kind as can be stirred in. 
 Boil or steam it two hours. Serve with  fruit
sauce, made as in receipt for "fruit sauces" of the same kind of 
 fruit  of which the pudding is made. 
 
 
  A CORN-STARCH
PUDDING. Many kinds of puddings can be made with this receipt by
adding different flavorings. I consider it a great success; besides, it is very
easily and quickly made. It may or may not be served with a  boiled
custard  made with the  yolks of the
eggs.  
 Ingredients: One pint of  rich milk,  two
table-spoonfuls of  corn starch,  a scant half-cupful of
 sugar,   whites of three or four
eggs,  a little  salt,  
 flavoring.  
 Beat the  eggs  to a stiff froth. Dissolve the 
 corn starch  in a little of the 
 milk.  Stir the  sugar  into the
remainder of the  milk,  which place on the fire. When
it begins to boil, add the dissolved  corn starch.  Stir
constantly for a few moments, when it will become a smooth paste; now stir in
the beaten  whites of the eggs,  and let it remain a
little longer to cook the  eggs.  It can be flavored
with  vanilla,  and put into a form; yet it is still
better as a 
 
 
  COCOA-NUT PUDDING. When
the preceding pudding is just finished, add half a 
 cocoa-nut  grated; put it into a mold. Serve with 
 whipped-cream  around it, or a  sauce of
boiled custard  made with the  yolks of the
eggs.  As only half of a  cocoa-nut  is used
for this pudding, sprinkle  sugar  on the other half,
and spread it on something, when it will keep a month. In that time perhaps
another pudding of the same kind may be wanted. Fresh 
 cocoa-nut   is better and
cheaper than the desiccated  cocoa-nut.  It requires the
whole of a twenty-five cent package of the desiccated 
 cocoa-nut,  and only half of a fresh one, which costs
but ten cents. 
 
 
  CHOCOLATE-PUDDING. With
still the same receipt for a  corn-starch pudding, first
flavor the whole with  vanilla;  now take out a third of
the pudding; flavor the remainder in the kettle with a bar of 
 chocolate,  softened, mashed, and dissolved with a
little  milk.  Put half of the chocolate-pudding in the
bottom of a mold (which has been wet in  cold water );
smooth the top; next make a layer with the  white
pudding  (the third taken out); smooth
it  A layered cylindrical pudding served on a round
platter.  also; next the remainder of the chocolate
pudding. Serve with  whipped cream,  or a 
 boiled custard  made with the  yolks of the
eggs  and flavored with  vanilla,  around
it; or, the one-third portion of pudding may be flavored with half a bar of 
 chocolate,  and placed in the centre of the two layers
of white, as in the picture; or one can use the same receipt for a 
 corn-starch pudding,  and flavor it with chopped 
 pine-apple,   strawberries,  or,
in winter, with  dried cherries  swollen in 
 water;  or it may be flavored with 
 chocolate,  with the white centre part of 
 cocoa-nut.  
 
 
  COCOA-NUT PUDDINGS, IN PAPER
CASES. Melt over the fire  butter  the size of
an egg, with a cupful of  sugar,  and a table-spoonful
of  water.  Pour them into a dish when they have boiled
a couple of minutes, and let them cool; mix with them half of a 
 cocoa-nut  grated, a table-spoonful of small cuts of 
 citron,  the grated  rind and juice of half
a lemon,  and the  yolks of four eggs beaten
separately; add the  whites  (beaten to a stiff froth)
the last thing. Fill little  paper cases  (see page 6),
and bake immediately. They may be served hot or cold. Of course it may all be
baked in one dish; but it makes a very dainty course to serve one of these
cases placed on a plate for each person. 
  
 
  EGG SOUFFL&#233;, IN PAPER
CASES. Make a  boiled custard  of 
 cream  with half a pint of 
 milk,   yolks of two eggs, three
table-spoonfuls of  sugar,  a heaping tea-spoonful of 
 flour,  a very little  butter,  
 salt,  and a flavoring of 
 vanilla,  or any thing else, as preferred. When it has
just thickened a little, take it off the fire, and let it partly cool. Add then
two  raw yolks of eggs  and four 
 whites  beaten to a stiff froth. 
 Butter  the  paper cases,  fill
them with this preparation, and bake them ten or fifteen minutes in a moderate
oven. 
 
 
  SNOW-PUDDING  ( Miss Amelia Foote ). 
 Cover one-third of a package of  gelatine  with a
little  cold water,  and, when softened, stir into it a
pint of  boiling water;  add one cupful of 
 sugar,  or  sugar  to taste, and
either the  juice of two lemons,  or half a tea-cupful
of  wine:  when cold, and beginning to thicken, add the
well-beaten  whites of three eggs.  Beat all lightly and
smoothly together, pour the mixture into a mold, and set it away until hard.
Serve in the centre of a platter, with a  boiled
custard  poured around, made with the  yolks of three
eggs,  one pint of  milk,  and half a cupful
of  sugar.  
 
 
  BOILED CUSTARD (No.
1). I will venture a receipt for boiled custard (perhaps it should be
granted that every one knows how to make it), as it is so often used in making
many kinds of dessert, and as an excellent sauce for several puddings. 
 It is considered better made of the  yolks  only of
the  eggs  (some  whites  may be
used, however). A dessert-spoonful of  sugar  is enough
for each  egg,  and five 
 yolks are quite sufficient for a quart of 
 milk.  Beat the  yolks  and the 
 sugar  together to a froth, and stir in the 
 milk;  put it into a 
 custard-boiler,  or, if one has none, into a small tin
pail. Place this in a kettle of  boiling water;  stir
the mixture constantly until it is a little thickened. If it is well stirred,
the custard will be a smooth cream; if allowed to remain a few moments too long
in the  boiling water  after it begins to thicken, it
will curdle and be spoiled. Do not flavor it with any of the
   essences,  
 wines,  or  brandy,  until after
it is cooked; if either a  vanilla-bean  or 
 peach-leaves  are used, cook them with the custard. 
 If the whole  eggs  are preferred, for economy's
sake, to be used (and they make very good custard), allow four 
 eggs  to a quart of  milk,  and
four dessert-spoonfuls of  sugar.  If the 
 milk  is first boiled before it is added to the other
ingredients, there will be less danger of the custard curdling. 
 
 
  BOIILED CUSTARD  ( Miss Eliza Brown ), No. 2. 
 Beat the  yolks of three eggs  very lightly; stir
into them two small table-spoonfuls of  corn
starch, dissolved in a little  milk,  and
one tea-cupful of  sugar.  Bring two quarts of 
 milk  to a boil, then take it off the fire; pour it
into the  eggs,  etc., a little at first; return it to
the fire, and stir it until it thickens, not allowing it to boil; let it remain
long enough to well cook the  starch.  Now stir in
lightly the  whites of four eggs  beaten to a stiff
froth, allowing the custard to remain a half-minute on the fire to set the 
 eggs.  Flavor with  vanilla  or 
 chocolate,  or with both. 
 
 
  APPLE M&#233;RINGUE  ( Mrs. Shaw ). 
 Boil  tart apples  after they are pared and cored;
rub the pulp through a  colander,  and sweeten it to
taste. To a pint of the soft pulp stir in lightly the  whites of
three eggs,  beaten to a stiff froth. Flavor with grated 
 rind and juice of lemon,  or with  lemon or
vanilla extract.  Serve it with  cream.  It
is a decided improvement to put this into a 
 pudding-dish and cover it with the beaten 
 whites of two or three eggs,  sweetened and flavored.
Color it in the oven. Serve with  cream  or 
 custard.  
 
 
  BAKED APPLES. Pare and
core large, juicy  pippins,  without cutting them to
pieces; fill the cavities with  sugar,  and a little 
 lemon-juice or extract,  and some thin slices of the 
 yellow part of the lemon-rind;  put them into a pan
with a little  water  in the bottom; sprinkle 
 sugar  over the tops, baste them often, and, when done,
set them away to cool. Serve them with  cream,  or they
may  be served with  whipped
cream,  flavored with  sugar  and 
 essence of lemon,  poured over so as to nearly conceal
them; or serve them with a  boiled custard  poured over
them. 
 
 
  FRIAR'S OMELET  ( Mrs. Treat ). 
 Stew six or seven good-sized  apples  as for
apple-sauce; stir in, when cooked and still warm, 
 butter  the size of a pigeon's egg, and one cupful of 
 sugar;  when cold, stir in three well-beaten 
 eggs  and a little 
 lemon-juice.  Now put a small piece of 
 butter  into a   saut&#233;  pan,  and when hot throw in a
cupful of  bread-crumbs;  stir them over the fire until
they assume a light-brown color.  Butter  a mold, and
sprinkle on the bottom and sides as many of the 
 bread-crumbs  as will adhere; fill in the 
 apple  preparation, sprinkle 
 bread-crumbs  on top, bake it for fifteen or twenty
minutes, and turn it out on a good-sized platter. It can be eaten with or
without a  sweet sauce.  
 
 
  FLOATING
ISLANDS. Separate the  whites and yolks of four
eggs;  with the  yolks  make a 
 boiled custard  with, say, a large pint of 
 milk,  four table-spoonfuls of 
 sugar,  and a flavoring of 
 vanilla,   essence of lemon,  
 sherry-wine,   peach-leaves,  or
any of the usual  flavorings.  Beat the 
 whites  to a stiff froth, sweetening and flavoring them
a little also. Wet a long spoon, turn it around in the beaten 
 egg,  taking out a piece of oblong shape; poach it,
turning it around in  boiling water,  or 
 milk,  which is better. When the custard is cold, pour
it into a glass dish, and place these poached  whites on
top; or make a circle of the  whites  in a platter, and
pour the custard between. 
 
 
  TIPSY-PUDDING. Soak a 
 sponge-cake  baked in a form (or, in fact, 
 dry pieces of cake  of any kind can be used) in 
 sherry-wine.  When saturated enough, so that it will
not fall to pieces, pour over it a  boiled custard  (No.
1), flavored with any thing preferred. If placed in a glass dish, decorate with
the beaten  whites of the eggs  poached, and with dots
of  jelly.  If served in a common platter, squeeze the
beaten  whites  (sweetened and flavored)
  through a funnel in any fancy shapes over the
pudding, and put it into the oven to receive a delicate color. 
 
 
  LEMON-PUDDING. Beat the
 yolks of two eggs  in a 
 pudding-dish;  add two cupfuls of 
 sugar.  Dissolve four table-spoonfuls of 
 corn starch  in a little  cold
water.  Stir into it two tea-cupfuls of  boiling
water.  Put in the  juice of two
lemons, with some of the  grated peel.  Mix
all together with a tea-spoonful of  butter.  Bake it
about fifteen minutes. When done, spread over the top the beaten 
 whites of the eggs  sweetened, and let it color a
moment in the oven. To be eaten hot or cold. 
 
 
  BLANC-MANGE. Put half a
paper of  gelatine,  two ounces of 
 sugar,  half of the very thin  rind of a
lemon,  and eight  bitter almonds,  blanched
and bruised, into a pint of  milk,  and let it stand an
hour. Place it over the fire, and let it come merely to the scalding-point,
stirring it well to dissolve the  gelatine.  
 Strain it into a bowl, add a pint of  cream,  and a
little  wine  or  brandy,  to
taste. Stir it occasionally, to prevent the 
 cream   A ring of nine molded
blanc-manges served on a round platter.  from
settling on the surface. Turn it, avoiding the settlings, into molds, to
harden; or, in place of almonds, a stick of 
 cinnamon may be substituted; or infuse a few more 
 almonds,  and omit the wine or brandy; or, the
blanc-mange may be flavored with  maraschino, or any other
liqueur.  I prefer blanc-mange made with  corn
starch,  as the same ingredients necessary for a blanc-mange proper
are better made into Bavarian creams. 
 
 
  CORN-STARCH
PUDDING. Ingredients: One and one-half pints of  rich
milk,  one large heaping table-spoonful of  corn
starch,  one scant cupful of  sugar,  four 
 eggs,  omitting two whites, a little 
 salt,  and  flavoring.  
 Bring the  milk  and the 
 sugar  almost to a boil, then add the
   corn starch  (stirred
smooth with a little  milk ), and a pinch of 
 salt.  Stir it at the back of the range for five
minutes, not allowing it to boil. Then take it off the fire; when a little
cooled, stir in the  eggs,  and when well and smoothly
mixed, place the kettle again on the fire for only a few moments, to be sure
that the  eggs  are slightly cooked. Now stir in the
flavoring, if it is an  extract.  
 Zest  ( sugar  rubbed on fresh 
 lemon-peel ) is an exceedingly delicate flavoring. The 
 vanilla powder  boiled in the 
 milk  is better than the 
 extract.  
 It makes a pretty dish to pour this into cups or little molds, and, when
cold and solid, to arrange them in a circle or, according to taste, on a
platter, with  strawberry, grape, or any kind of fruit
sauce,  or  whipped cream  poured into the
bottom of the dish; or, mold it in a circular form, and pile up any kind of 
 berries  in the centre, with or without 
 whipped cream.  For an invalid I prefer the other
receipt for "a corn-starch pudding." 
 The common rule of corn-starch pudding is one quart of 
 milk,  three  eggs,  three
table-spoonfuls of  corn starch,  one even cupful of 
 sugar;  add  flavoring  and a
little  salt.  
 
 
  BREAD-PUDDING. Soak
some  crumbled bread  in 
 milk. Put a layer of this (rather moist) in the bottom
of a  pudding-dish;  sprinkle over some 
 raisins  and a little  cinnamon
powder,  then another layer of soaked 
 bread-crumbs,   raisins,  and 
 cinnamon powder.  Now beat up three 
 eggs  (to about a quart of soaked 
 bread-crumbs ) with two heaping table-spoonfuls of 
 sugar;  mix into it a quarter of a cupful of 
 rum,   brandy,  or 
 wine,  and pour it all over the pudding in the dish.
Bake about twenty minutes. 
 
 
  BREAD-AND-BUTTER
PUDDING. Strew layers of  English
currants between slices of  buttered bread 
(crust cut off). Pour over them a  boiled custard 
flavored with  nutmeg  or any other flavoring desired.
Set them into the oven to soak, and bake about fifteen minutes. 
  
 
  FRIED
BREAD-PUDDING. Cut the crust from slices of 
 bread.  Cut them into pieces of the same shape and
size. Soak them a few moments in  custard -- i.e.,  some  milk,  one or two 
 eggs,  and  sugar  to taste, and
a flavoring of  cinnamon.  
 Saut&#233;  them in hot 
 lard to a delicate brown. Serve with 
 brandy-sauce,  or almost any kind of  sweet
sauce.  
 
 
  INDIAN-CORN
PUDDING. Scald a quart of  milk,  and stir in
seven table-spoonfuls of sifted  corn-meal,  a
tea-spoonful of  salt,  one tea-cupful of 
 molasses,  a table-spoonful of 
 ginger.  Bake three hours. 
    BAVARIAN CREAMS. 
 THERE is not a more delicious dessert than that of Bavarian cream. These
creams are exceedingly easy to make, and, as they are prepared some time before
dinner, they have the advantage of being out of the way when cooking this meal.
They are a cheap country dessert, where one has plenty of cream, yet are not so
very expensive in the city, as it only requires a pint of common cream to make
a quart and a half of Bavarian cream. 
 When cream is thoroughly chilled, it is much more readily whipped. A pint
can be whipped in a few minutes with a little tin tube 
 cream-whipper.  If no whipper is at hand, beat the cream
with a fork, and skim of the whipped cream as it rises. It is always better not
to cook gelatine; it should be soaked in a little water near the fire for an
hour or two, when it will be entirely dissolved, and then it should be stirred
into the custard while it is still hot. In making the Bavarian creams, do not
add the whipped cream to the ingredients with the gelatine until they are quite
cold and are beginning to set, or they would otherwise dissolve the cream. The
ingredients will set very soon if placed on ice. The pine-apple Bavarian is
especially nice, and can be made with the canned pine-apple if the fresh
pine-apple can not be obtained; however, there is not much choice, as they are
all delicious.  
 The Bavarian creams all make good 
 charlottes-russe,  the peach Bavarian making an
especially delicious one. Sometimes these mixtures are frozen, and put into 
 charlotte  molds; the cake is formed in molds a
trifle larger. When the cream is frozen, it is inserted into the cake just
before serving. When freezing the mixture, the whipped cream is not added until
the custard or ingredients with the gelatine are partly frozen. 
 
  BAVARIAN CREAM, WITH VANILLA ( Mrs. Blair ). 
 Whip one pint of  cream  to a stiff froth, laying it
on sieve. Boil another pint of  cream  or 
 rich milk,  with a  vanilla
bean,  and two table-spoonfuls of 
 sugar, until it is well flavored; then take it off the
fire and add half a box of  Nelson's or Coxe's gelatine 
soaked for an hour in half a cupful of  water,  in a
warm place near the range; when slightly cooled, stir in the  yolks
of four eggs well beaten. When it has become quite cold, and begins
to thicken, stir it without ceasing a few minutes until it is very smooth, then
stir in the  whipped cream  lightly until it is well
mixed. Put it into a mold or molds, and set it on  ice, 
or in some cool place. 
 
 
  BAVARIAN CREAM, WITH
CHOCOLATE, is made as the preceding cream, adding two sticks of 
 chocolate,  soaked and smoothed, to the 
 yolks of the eggs.  
 
 
  BAVARIAN CREAM, WITH
STRAWBERRIES. After picking two pounds and a half of 
 strawberries,  squeeze them through a 
 colander,  and add six ounces of 
 sugar  to the  juice;  when the 
 sugar  is dissolved, add half a box of 
 gelatine  soaked as before described. Place it on the 
 ice,  stir it smooth when it begins to set, then stir
in a pint of  cream  whipped; put it into a mold or
molds, and serve with fresh  strawberries  around
it. 
 
 
  BAVARIAN CREAM, WITH
ALMONDS. Take three ounces of  sweet and one ounce of
bitter almonds,  blanch and skin them, and put them into a pan on a
moderate fire, stirring them continually. As soon as they have acquired a fine
yellow color, take them off the fire, and when cold pound
  them into fine pieces. Then add a pint of 
 cream  or  rich milk  (nearly
boiling), and two or three table-spoonfuls of 
 sugar, and half a package of 
 gelatine,  which has been soaked as before described.
Put it upon the  ice,  and when about to thicken stir it
until it is very smooth, then stir in lightly a pint of 
 cream  whipped, and put it into a mold. 
 
 
  BAVARIAN CREAM, WITH
PEACHES. Cut eighteen fine  peaches  into small
pieces, and boil them with half a pound of  sugar.  When
they are reduced to a marmalade, squeeze them through a sieve or 
 colander.  Then add  A molded
bavarian cream dessert garnished with peach slices and served on a round
platter.  half a package of  dissolved
gelatine,  and a glassful of good 
 cream. Stir it well, to make it smooth when it is about
to set, then add the pint of  cream  whipped, and mold
it. It makes a still prettier dish to serve halves or quarters of fresh 
 peaches  half frozen, around the 
 cream.  
 
 
  BAVARIAN CREAM, WITH
PINE-APPLE. Cut a  pine-apple  into fine
pieces; boil it with one half-pound, or a coffee-cupful of 
 sugar;  pass the 
 marmalade through a sieve or 
 colander;  turn off part of the juice; add half a package
of  dissolved gelatine.  Stir, and add the pint of 
 cream  whipped, as before described. Mold it. 
 
 
  BAVARIAN CREAM, WITH
COFFEE. Throw three heaping table-spoonfuls of fresh roasted and
ground  Mocha coffee  into a pint of boiling 
 rich milk.  Make a strong infusion, strain it, and add
to it the whipped  yolks of four eggs  well beaten, with
an even cupful of  sugar.  Stir the custard over the
fire until it begins to thicken; take it off the fire, and add to it, while
still hot, half a box of  gelatine  which has been
standing an hour on the hearth to dissolve in a little  cold
water.  When just beginning to set, stir it well to make it smooth,
then add the pint of  cream  whipped. Mold it. 
  
 
  CHARLOTTE-RUSSE. The 
 sponge-cake  may be made with four 
 eggs,  one cupful of  sugar, one
and one-half cupfuls of  flour,  and two even
tea-spoonfuls of  yeast powder,  or as described for
sponge jelly-cake (see page 300). 
 To make an even sheet, professional cooks pass the cake batter through the 
  m&#233;ringue  bag  on a
large sheet of  foolscap paper  in rows which touch each
other, and which run together smoothly when baking; or, without the 
  m&#233;ringue  bag,  it may
be spread over the sheet as evenly as possible. When baked, an oval piece is
cut to fit the bottom of the   charlotte 
pan,  then even-sized parallelograms are cut to fit around the
sides. Fill with  cream  made as follows: Whip one pint
of  cream  flavored with 
 vanilla to a stiff froth, and add to it the well-beaten
 whites of two eggs,  and one half-pound of 
 pulverized sugar;  mix it all lightly and carefully
together. Fill the   charlotte 
pan,  or pans, and put them into the 
 ice-chest  to set. 
 This is the best and simplest manner of making a 
 charlotte-russe.  Many take the trouble to add 
 gelatine,  which is unnecessary.  Professor
Blot  made the filling of his 
 charlotte-russe  of sweetened and flavored 
 whipped cream  only. It will harden without difficulty
if placed upon the  ice,  and it is very delicate; yet
the  whites of eggs  are an improvement. It there is
only enough cake at hand to fit the sides of the pan, put a paper in the bottom
of the mold cut to fit, and the 
 charlotte  can be served without a top. 
 These 
 charlottes  are very prettily decorated on top with
icing squeezed through a small-sized funnel; or, you may pour a 
 transparent icing  over the whole, and make the
decoration over this with the  common icing.  Sometimes
they are made in little molds, one 
 charlotte  for each plate, and, again, a large 
 charlotte  is decorated with a circle of 
 strawberries  around it. 
  Cream  is much more easily frothed when placed on 
 ice  and thoroughly chilled before whipping; when
whipping it, place the froth on a sieve, and all that drops through can be
returned to the bowl to be rewhipped. Sometimes professional cooks work the
froth with an  egg-whisk  to make it finer grained. 
  
 
  AMBROSIA. Slice peeled 
 oranges.  Make alternate layers of  orange
slices,   sugar,  and grated 
 cocoa-nut,  until a glass dish is filled, having grated
 cocoa-nut  on top; now pour a little  sherry
wine  over the top, to run through the mixtures. It is as often
served without the  wine.  
    DESSERTS OF RICE. 
 
  TO BOIL RICE. ALWAYS
cook  rice  with plenty of 
 salt;  it is insipid without it. It is sometimes cooked
in a  steamer,  with  milk, without
stirring it; although it is more quickly cooked by soaking it an hour or two,
and then throwing it into  salted boiling water in the
brightest of saucepans. To half a pound of the  rice 
use about five pints of  water.  Let it simmer about
twenty minutes. Handle it carefully, not to break the kernels. 
 
 
  RICE-PUDDING. This
receipt makes one of the plainest and best puddings ever eaten. It is a success
where every grain of  rice  seems lying in a creamy
bed. 
 Ingredients: One cupful of boiled  rice  (better if
just cooked, and still hot), three cupfuls of 
 milk, three-quarters of a cupful of 
 sugar,  a table-spoonful of  corn
starch,  two  eggs;  add flavoring. 
 Dissolve the  corn starch  first with a little 
 milk,  and then stir in the remainder of the 
 milk;  add the  yolks of the
eggs  and the  sugar  beaten together. Now
put this over the fire (there is less risk of burning in a 
 custard-kettle ), and when hot add the hot 
 rice.  It will seem as if there were too much 
 milk  for the  rice;  but there
is not. Stir it carefully until it begins to thicken like boiled custard, then
take it off the fire, and add the  flavoring,  say, 
 extract of lemon.  Put it into a 
 pudding-dish,  and place it in the oven. Now beat the 
 whites of the eggs  to a stiff froth, and add a little 
 sugar  and flavoring. Take the pudding from the oven
when colored a little, spread the froth over the
top, and return it to the oven for a few minutes to give the froth a delicate
coloring. 
 
 
  RICE-CONES. Mold boiled
 rice,  when hot, in cups which have been previously
dipped in  cold water;  when cold, turn them out on a
flat dish, arranging them uniformly; then with a tea-spoon scoop out a little
of the  rice  from the top of each cone, and put in its
place any kind of  jelly.  Just before serving, pour in
the bottom of the dish hot  brandy-sauce.  For a change,
it is well to boil a stick of  cinnamon  in the 
 rice  to flavor it. 
 
 
  RICE-CAKE, WITH
PEACHES. When some  rice  is cooked in a 
 steamer  with  milk,  and is still
hot, add a little  butter,  
 sugar,  and one or two  eggs.  
 Butter  a plain 
 pudding-mold, strew the  butter 
with  bread-crumbs,  and put in a layer of 
 rice  half an inch thick; then a layer of 
 peaches,  and continue alternate layers of each until
the mold is full. Bake this for about fifteen or twenty minutes in an oven;
when done, turn the cake out of the mold, and pour in the bottom of the dish a 
 boiled custard-sauce  flavored with 
 wine,  or any thing preferred. 
 
 
  RICE-CAKE, WITH
PINE-APPLE. Prepare  rice  as above. Cut the 
 pine-apple  into dice, and boil them in 
 sirup  ( water  and 
 sugar  boiled ten or fifteen minutes); drain and mix
them in the  rice.   Butter  a
plain  pudding-mold  or basin, and strew it with 
 bread-crumbs;  put in the 
 rice and  pine-apple,  and bake
it; when done, turn it out of the mold, and pour around it a 
 sauce  made as follows: Peel three large 
 apples,  and cook them in one pint of sirup sweetened
to taste. When the  apples  are quite soft, strain them
through a sieve, and mix this sirup with that in which the 
 pine-apple  was cooked; boil, or reduce it until it
coats the spoon. 
 
 
  GROUND RICE-PUDDING, WITH
CHOCOLATE SAUCE. Steam one quarter of a pound of ground 
 rice  and one pint of  cream  a
quarter of an hour, then flavor it with  vanilla;  add
  one ounce of  butter, the
 yolks of four eggs,  let it cool, and beat it for half
an hour; beat up the  whites of the eggs  to a froth,
which mix in gently. Steam it a quarter of an hour. Serve it with half a pint
of  boiled custard,  having one ounce of soaked and
mashed  chocolate  stirred well into it, poured into the
bottom of the dish. 
 
 
  ORANGE SNOW-BALLS  ( Mrs. Acton ). 
 Boil some  rice  for ten minutes, drain, and let it
cool. Pare some  oranges,  taking off all the thick
white skin; spread the  rice  in as many portions as
there are  oranges,  on some  pudding or
dumpling cloths.  Tie the  fruit  (surrounded
by the  rice ) separately in these, and boil the balls
for an hour; turn them carefully on a dish, sprinkle over plenty of sifted 
 sugar.  Serve with any kind of 
 sauce  or  sweetened cream.  
 
 
  APPLE SNOW-BALLS. Pare
and core some large  apples  without dividing them.
Prepare the  rice  as in the foregoing receipt; inclose
the  apples  separately in it, and boil them
three-quarters of an hour. 
  Sauce. --A little 
 butter  and  sugar  mixed to a
cream; a spoonful of  corn starch  cooked in two cupfuls
of  boiling water;  flavoring of 
 cinnamon.  To mix, see Sweet Sauces. 
 
 
  align="center" placement="heading"&gt;RICE
SOUFFL&#233;. Ingredients: Half a cupful of 
 rice,  one even cupful of 
 sugar,  one pint of  milk,  
 butter  the size of a butter-nut, half a 
 lemon,  five  eggs.  
 Throw the  rice  into boiling  salted
water,  and let it boil for ten minutes. Then put it into a 
 stew-pan  with the  milk,  
 butter  and  sugar,  and set
this to simmer very slowly for about half an hour, when the 
 rice  should be very soft (or the pan can be placed in
a vessel of  boiling water,  or in a 
 steamer ). If it is placed directly on the range, much
care should be taken not to let it burn. Now work the 
 rice,  etc., with a wooden spoon until it is a smooth
paste; add the  yolks of the eggs  beaten to a perfect
froth, and a lump of  loaf sugar  (mashed) which has
absorbed all the oil out of the  rind of the whole
lemon  (called  zest ); add
  also the  juice of half of the
lemon.  If the  rice  is now too firm, add a
little  cream  also. When cold, stir into this the 
 whites of the eggs  beaten to the stiffest possible
froth, and put the mixture into a flat  pudding-dish,  or
into little  paper cases  (see page 61). Sprinkle 
 granulated sugar  over the top or tops. Bake in the
oven about ten minutes. Serve immediately, or the 
 souffl&#233;  will fall. Ground 
 rice  may be used instead of whole 
 rice.  It should be rubbed smooth with a little 
 cold milk,  and then added to the remainder of the 
 milk  and the  butter  on the
fire, and stirred until it thickens. It is then taken off the fire, sweetened,
and flavored; the beaten  yolks  and then the beaten 
 whites  are stirred in quickly, and the 
 sugar  is sprinkled over the top, when all is put into
the oven. 
 
 
  RICE
CROQUETTES. Ingredients: To half a pound of 
 rice,  one quart of  milk,  one
tea-cupful of  sugar,  a very little 
 butter,   yolks of one or two
eggs  beaten, flavoring, and a little 
 salt.  
 Soak the  rice  three or four hours in 
 water;  drain, and put into a basin with the 
 milk  and  salt.  Set the basin
in the  steamer,  and cook until thoroughly done. Then
stir in carefully the  sugar,  the  yolks of
one or two eggs,  very little  butter,  and
flavor with  extract of lemon or vanilla.  If fresh 
 lemon  is used, add a little 
 zest.  When cool enough to handle, form into small
balls; press the thumb into the centre of each; insert a little 
 marmalade,  or  jelly  of any
kind, and close the  rice  well over them. Roll in
beaten  eggs  (sweetened a little), and 
 bread-crumbs.  Fry in boiling-hot 
 lard.  
 
 
  RICE PANCAKES, WITH
PRESERVES. Make the  pancakes  (see page 70),
and while hot spread them with 
 butter, and  A line of eight
rolled-up rice pancakes served on an oval
platter.  with almost any kind of 
 preserve  or  jelly;  roll them,
cut off the ends, arrange them tastefully on a hot platter, sprinkle 
 sugar  over the tops, and serve immediately. 
     WINE JELLIES. 
 
  WINE
JELLY. Ingredients: One box of  gelatine soaked
in one pint of clear  cold water,  one pint of 
 wine,  the  juice and the thin cuts of rinds
of three lemons,  one and three-quarter pounds of 
 loaf-sugar,  one quart of clear  boiling
water,  the  whites of two eggs (well beaten) and the
shells,  with a small stick of 
 cinnamon.  
 Soak the  gelatine  in the pint of  cold
water  an hour, then pour over it the quart of  boiling
water,  stirring it well; now add the 
 wine,   sugar,  
 eggs,   lemon-juice  (strained
in a fine strainer), and the thinnest possible cuts from the  peels
of the lemons.  These cuts take only the little globules of oil in
the peel, which are exceedingly delicate in flavor, the white part being
bitter.  A fancy molded wine jelly served on a round
platter.  Add also the small stick of 
 cinnamon,  as it adds much to the flavor of the jelly.
Put this into a porcelain kettle, let it boil rapidly about a quarter of a
minute without stirring it; now, setting the kettle on the hearth, let it
remain another half-minute to settle, then skim off carefully the scum which is
at the top; pour it through the  jelly-bag.  It should be
entirely clear: if, however, the first should not be so, return it to the
bag. 
  Cold water  should be poured into the molds, then
emptied just before using. Jelly hardens much quicker on 
 ice,  or in the coolest place to be found. 
 Dip the molds into  warm water  a moment, before
taking out the jelly. If allowed to remain a moment too long, the jelly might
dissolve a little, injuring the form. 
 Many kinds of  wines  and 
 liquors  may be used. The above receipt is well
proportioned for  sherry,  
 Madeira,  or  port;  a smaller
proportion of  brandy,  
 maraschino,   noyau,  or of 
 punch  would make sufficient flavoring; a larger
portion of  Champagne  might be used, as it is not so
strong. 
  
 
  ORANGE JELLY ( molded with Quarters of Oranges ). Ingredients:
Eight oranges,  two 
 lemons, three-quarters of a box of 
 gelatine  soaked in half a pint of  cold
water,  three-quarters of a pound of 
 loaf-sugar,  one pint of  boiling
water,  beaten  whites and shells of two
eggs.  
 Rub the  loaf-sugar  on the  peels of two
oranges and one lemon;  squeeze the 
 juice from six or seven 
 oranges  and two  lemons,  and
strain it. Take off the peel carefully from two 
 oranges,  leaving only the transparent skin surrounding
the quarters, and separate all the sections without breaking them. Soak the 
 gelatine  half an hour in half a pint of 
 water;  boil the other pint of 
 water  and the  sugar  together,
skimming all the time until no more scum rises; then put in the sections of 
 oranges,  and when they have boiled about a minute take
them out, and put them one side. Pour this  sirup  over
the soaked  gelatine,  adding the  orange and
lemon juice,  the beaten  whites and the shells of two
eggs.  Put it on the fire, and let it boil about quarter of a
minute without stirring; then, placing it at the side of the fire, skim off
carefully all the scum at the top, and pass it through the 
 jelly-bag.  When half of the jelly is in the mold, put it
on the  ice,  and let it set hard enough to hold the 
 orange  sections, which place in a circular row around
the edge of the mold; then add enough more jelly to cover the sections; when
this has hardened, pour over the remainder of the jelly, which should have been
kept in a warm place to prevent it from hardening. All the sections of 
 orange  may be put in with the first half of the jelly,
as they will rise to the top, although they will not hold their places evenly.
Or, if time is valuable, mold the jelly without the sections, and save them to
garnish the jelly on the dish. 
 
 
  LEMON
JELLY. Ingredients: Half a box of 
 gelatine soaked in half a pint of 
 water,   juice of five large
lemons,  two cupfuls of  loaf-sugar,  or 
 sugar  to taste, beaten  white and shell of
an egg,  one and a half pints of  boiling
water.  
 Soak the  gelatine  in the half-pint of 
 water  half an hour. Rub several of the pieces of the 
 sugar  on the  peel of the
lemon,  to  soak the oil on the
surface. Pour a pint and a half of  boiling water  on
the soaked  gelatine,  and add 
 lemon-juice,   sugar,  and 
 egg;  let it come to a boil, then set it at the side of
the range a few moments; skim carefully, and pass through the 
 jelly-bag  into molds. 
 
 
  MACEDOINE OF
FRUITS. This is made with any kind of 
 jelly; however,  jelly made with Champagne
or sherry  is preferable. Any of the delicate 
 fruits  of the season, such as 
 grapes,   cherries,  
 peaches,   strawberries,  
 raspberries,   mulberries,  
 currants  (on their stems), 
 plums,  and  orange  sections,
or  preserved fruits,  such as  brandied
cherries, peaches, etc.,  are tastefully imbedded in the jelly, so
as to show their forms and colors to best advantage. A fine bunch of 
 Hamburg or of Malaga grapes  is exceedingly pretty,
incorporated whole into a clear  Champagne jelly;  it
should be suspended with a small thread in the centre of the 
 jelly-mold,  and the jelly poured in when quite cold,
although not set. The bunches of  grapes  are in this
way much more easily imbedded than other  fruits.  In
the latter case, the mold is placed on  ice;  a little
jelly is poured in, and, when set, some  fruits  are
arranged in a circle, or according to taste; more jelly poured in, and left to
harden again; more  fruit  added, and thus continued
until the mold is full. 
 Do not heat the jelly a second time; merely keep it in a warm place,
awaiting that on the ice to harden. 
 
 
  FANCY JELLIES. 
 Jelly  is sometimes formed in a mold with a cylindrical
tube in the centre; the open space in the centre is then filled with 
 whipped cream.  Then, to be still more fanciful, the 
 whipped cream  may be dotted with 
 strawberries,  or any kind of  preserved
fruits,  such as  cherries,  
 grapes,  cuts of  peaches, etc.,
etc. 
  Then there is  ribbon jelly, or jelly made in two
colors,  in this way: Half of a  Champagne or sherry
jelly  is colored quite red with a few drops of 
 prepared cochineal;  a little pale jelly is poured into
the mold, and, when set, a layer of the red jelly is poured carefully over it,
and so continued until the mold is filled with alternate layers of the two
colors.   
   Italian jelly  is pretty also. The mold is half
filled with  jelly,  and, when set, a chain of cakes of 
 blanc-mange  (made rather firm, hardened
in a thin layer, and cut of equal sizes with a 
 pepper-box  cover or a small  tin
cutter ) is arranged; then the remainder of the jelly is added to
the mold.  
   Whipped jelly  makes a pretty change. When it
is set a little, put it into a bowl; whip it with an 
 egg-whisk  until it is full of air-bubbles. Fill the
mold, and put on  ice.   
 
 
  WHAT TO DO WITH PARTS OF JELLY
LEFT OVER IN WINTER. Add  lemon-juice;  beat
the jelly until it becomes entirely white, which will take some time, and put
it into a mold again. 
 
 
  CALF'S-FOOT JELLY. I
have made calf's-foot jelly twice, and never intend to make it again. I would
not have made it the second time, except for the purpose of succeeding, and
getting a reliable receipt for this book. At the first attempt, I happened to
have company who had heard that I pretended to be a cook. The jelly was opaque,
tasteless, and split in two. Here is a successful receipt. It requires almost
every thing known in the cooking calendar; but do not attempt it with less, and
after a trial use  gelatine  only for jellies. 
 Ingredients: Four  calf's feet  boiled in a gallon of
 water,  seven  eggs,  one and a
half pounds of  sugar,  one pint of  sherry
wine,  a stick of  cinnamon,  three 
 cloves,  and half a box of 
 gelatine.  
 Split the  calf's feet,  break the 
 bones,  and place them on the fire at the back of the
range, with a gallon of  cold water,  to boil gently fo
five hours. Skim the  water  often, which should be
reduced to rather less than two quarts; then strain the jelly into a pan, and,
when perfectly firm, remove the fat and sediment. 
 Add to the jelly the beaten  whites and crushed shells of seven
eggs,  one and a half pounds of  sugar,  a
pint of  sherry wine,  a stick of 
 cinnamon,  three  cloves,  and
half a box of  gelatine  soaked in a little 
 water,  and whip this well together; set it over the
fire, and when it has just begun to boil throw in the  juice of six
lemons,  and one or two table-spoonfuls of clear,  cold
water;  take the kettle off the fire, let it remain at the side in
  rather a hot place about ten minutes, then skim
off carefully all the scum from the top. Put into the 
 jelly-bag  the thin cuts from the  peels of
four lemons,  not cutting the white or under skin, as that is
bitter; then pour in the jelly, having the apparatus near the fire to prevent
the jelly hardening before it has all passed through. 
 
 
  WHIPPED JELLY, WITH
FRUITS. Prepare about two cupfuls of  preserved
fruits --for instance,  pine-apples,  
 peaches,   greengages,  and 
 cherries;  keep the 
 cherries whole, but cut the others into dice; moisten
them all with  sherry.  
 Prepare about a quart of  Champagne, sherry, or brandy
jelly,  and when strained pour it into a basin, which place on the 
 ice,  or on ice and  salt;  whip
it now gently with the  egg-whisk,  adding the 
 juice of two lemons;  when it begins to set, and is
quite frothy (not too much so, however), stir in the 
 fruits;  place all into a mold, and surround it with
ice. 
    CAKE. 
  Rules for Cake. --Have every thing ready before
mixing the material-- i.e.,  the ingredients all
measured and prepared, and the tins buttered. The sooner the cake is mixed
(after the ingredients are ready) and put into the oven, the better. Sift the
flour, and have it dry. Mix baking-powder or cream of tartar, it used, well
into the flour, passing it through the sieve several times, if particular. Roll
the sugar; mix sugar and butter together to a cream. The eggs must then be 
 very, very well  beaten separately. If one person
makes the cake, beat the yolks first. If soda is used, dissolve it in the milk,
or, if no milk is used, in a little lukewarm water; add it the last thing,
unless fruit is used, when it should always be rolled in flour, and added the
last thing. Cake, to be light, should be baked slowly at first, until the
batter is evenly heated all through. Many leave the oven door slightly open for
the first ten or fifteen minutes. The prepared flour is especially good for
cake.  
 
  SPONGE-CAKE. This is
the most perfect of sponge-cakes, when properly made. 
 Ingredients: Ten  eggs,  one pound of 
  pulverized  sugar,  half a
pound of  flour,   juice of half a large
lemon,  with the  rind  grated. 
 After all the ingredients are quite ready-- i.e., the  flour  and 
 sugar  sifted, the  lemon-peel 
grated, the half  lemon  squeezed, and the tins
buttered--the success of this cake is in the beating of the 
 eggs.  Two persons should beat them at least half an
hour, one beating the  whites,  and the other the 
 yolks  and half of the 
 sugar together. Next cut the 
 yolks  into the  whites,  then
stir in lightly the remainder of the  sugar,  then the 
 flour  and  lemon  by
degrees. *  
 The oven heat should be rather 
 moderate  at first. Much of the success depends upon
this, as the batter should be evenly heated throughout before it begins to
rise. When baked, spread over the cakes a wafer thickness of 
 icing  (see page 304) slightly flavored with 
 vanilla.  
 
 
  WHITE CAKE  ( Miss Eliza Brown ). 
 I venture to say there is not to be found a better receipt for white cake
than the following. The cake is mixed contrary to the usual rules for making
cake, but it is the best mode for making it fine-grained and delicate. 
 Ingredients:  Whites of six eggs,  scant
three-quarters of a cupful of  butter,  one and
one-quarter cupfuls of  pulverized sugar,  two cupfuls
of  flour,   juice of half a
lemon,  one-quarter of a tea-spoonful of 
 soda.   The following note appears at the
bottom of page 295 in the original text. 
 *A pound of sugar is three cupfuls; half a pound of
flour, two and a half cupfuls-- i.e.,  the ordinary
sized  kitchen cup.  Do not try to make half the
quantity. 
 If  soda  is used, mix it well with the 
 flour,  and pass it through the sieve several times to
distribute it equally. Beat the  butter  to a light
cream, and add the  flour  to it, stirring it in
gradually with the ends of the fingers until it is a smooth paste. Beat
  the  whites of the six
eggs  to a stiff froth, and mix in them the  pulverized
sugar;  now stir the  egg  and 
 sugar  gradually into the 
 flour  and  butter,  adding also
the  lemon-juice,  and mix it smoothly together with the
 egg-whisk.  As soon as it is perfectly smooth, put it
into the oven, the heat of which should be rather moderate at first. When done
and still hot, spread over it a frosting made with the  white of one
egg,   pulverized sugar  (see page 304), and
a flavoring of  lemon.  The frosting is a decided
improvement, and, according to the receipt, only requires a few minutes to
prepare. 
 This cake may be made with one tea-spoonful of 
 baking-powder,  or with prepared 
 flour,  or with the one-quarter tea-spoonful of 
 soda  and one-half tea-spoonful of  cream of
tartar,  when the  essence of lemon  should
be used instead of the  lemon-juice.  
 
 
  JUMBLES  ( Mrs.
Wadsworth ). 
 Ingredients: Two cupfuls of  sugar,  three 
 eggs  (beaten separately); one cupful of 
 butter,  just enough  flour  to
roll it out. 
 Mix quickly, and roll it thin. Cut out the cakes with a round 
 cake-cutter,  cutting them out again in the centre with
the top of the  pepper-glass  of the 
 caster.  When they are in the pans, wet the tops, using a
 paste-brush  or feather, with the  white of an
egg  slightly beaten. Then sprinkle over very coarse-pounded 
 lump-sugar;  the  sugar,  in
fact, in little lumps. 
 
 
  ALMOND
JUMBLES. Ingredients: One pound of 
 sugar, one-half pound of 
 butter,  one pound of  almonds 
blanched and chopped fine, two  eggs,  
 flour  enough to mix stiff. 
 Roll thin. Moisten the top of each one with the  white of
eggs,  and sprinkle with  sugar.  Bake
quickly. 
 Some persons wet the jumbles with a brush or a little cloth saturated with 
 sherry-wine  after they are cooked, and then return
them to the oven a few moments to dry. 
 
 
  COCOA-NUT CAKE  ( Miss Emma Witt, of Cleveland ). 
 Ingredients: One-half coffee-cupful of  butter,  two
small tea-spoonfuls of  cream of tartar,  two and
one-half coffee-cupfuls of  
 sugar,  one small tea-spoonful of 
 soda,  four and one-half coffee-cupfuls of 
 flour,  two grated 
 cocoa-nuts, one coffee-cupful of  sweet
milk,  the  whites of seven eggs.  
 Reserve a large handful of the grated  cocoa-nut  to
sprinkle on the frosting. This cake looks most beautiful mixed with fruit-cake
in a  cake-basket.  
 
 
  FRUIT-CAKE  ( Miss Abbie Carpenter, of Saratoga ). 
 Ingredients: One pound of  flour,  one pound of 
 sugar,  one and one-eighth pound of 
 butter,  one-half pound of  candied
citron,  four pounds of  currants,  four
pounds of  raisins  (stoned and chopped), nine 
 eggs,  one table-spoonful each of ground 
 cloves,  of  cinnamon,  of 
 mace,  and of  nutmeg,  and
three gills of  brandy.  
 This cake is perhaps not too large, as it will keep for years. 
 
 
  ENGLISH
POUND-CAKE. Ingredients: One pound of 
 butter beaten to a cream, one pound of pounded 
 sugar,  ten  eggs  (
 whites  and  yolks  beaten
separately), one pound of dried  flour,  eight ounces of
 almonds,  eight ounces of  candied
peel,  two wine-glasses of  brandy.  
 When all are well beaten together, add three pounds of  English
currants  and one pound of  raisins  (both
dredged in  flour ). Set it immediately in a moderate
oven, and bake three hours at least. 
 
 
  BOSTON
CREAM-CAKES.  Paste. --One pint of 
 water,  half a pound of 
 butter,  three-quarters of a pound of 
 flour,  ten  eggs.  
 Boil the  water  and 
 butter together; stir in the 
 flour  while boiling, and let it cook a moment; when
cool, add the  eggs,  well beaten, with a tea-spoonful
of  saleratus  and a little 
 salt.  Drop with a spoon on buttered tins, forming
little cakes some distance apart. Bake in a quick oven; they will puff in
baking. When done and cold, cut one side large enough to insert the 
 cream  with a spoon. This will take about sixty
cakes. 
  Cream. --One cupful of 
 flour,  two cupfuls of 
 sugar, four  eggs,  one quart of
 milk.  
 Beat the  eggs  and 
 sugar together, then add  flour 
and enough  of the  milk 
to make a smooth and thin paste; pour this into the remainder of the 
 milk  when it is boiling, and stir constantly until it
is sufficiently thickened; flavor with  vanillla.  Do
not use it until it is cold. It is better to make this, as indeed all custards,
in a  custard-kettle.  
 
 
  CRULLERS  ( Miss
Amanda Newton ). 
 Beat three  eggs  well with four table-spoonfuls of 
 sugar;  add four or five table-spoonfuls of melted 
 lard,  then  flour  enough to
make it not too stiff. Roll rather thin (one-third of an inch). Cut the cakes
into shapes, and throw them into boiling  lard,  like
doughnuts. They may be simply shaped, as in Fig.
1.  Three illustrations labeled 1, 2, and 3, showing
the process of shaping crullers.  To give them the
shape of Fig. 3, first cut the paste, as in Fig. 2; hold the first line with
the thumb and finger of the left hand, then with the right hand slip the second
line under the first, then the third under the second, and so on until they are
all slipped under; pinch the two ends together, and the cruller will be in form
of Fig. 3. 
 
 
  DOUGHNUTS  ( Mrs.
Bartlett ). 
 Ingredients: Two  eggs,  one cupful of 
 sugar,  one cupful of  sour
milk,  half a tea-spoonful of  soda,  four
table-spoonfuls of melted  lard;  add 
 flour,  making the dough rather soft. 
 Fry them in hot  lard,  and sprinkle 
 pulverized sugar  over them while still hot. 
 
 
  BREAD-CAKE. Ingredients: Three cupfuls of 
 bread-dough,  one cupful of 
 butter,  three scant cupfuls of 
 sugar,  one cupful of 
 raisins or  English currants, 
three  eggs,  a  nutmeg  grated,
one tea-spoonful of  soda,  two tea-spoonfuls of 
 cream of tartar,  a wine-glassful of 
 brandy.  
 
 
  GINGERBREAD  ( Mrs. Lansing ), No. 1. 
 Ingredients: Two cupfuls of  molasses,  one cupful of
 butter,   one cupful of 
 sugar,  one cupful of  milk (sour or
sweet),  five  eggs,  five cupfuls of sifted
 flour,  two table-spoonfuls of 
 ginger,  half a tea-spoonful of 
 cloves,  one tea-spoonful of 
 soda.  
 
 
  GINGERBREAD (No.
2). Ingredients: One cupful (half a pint) of 
 molasses,  one cupful (half a pint) of 
 boiling water,   butter  the
size of an egg, one tea-spoonful each of ground 
 cloves,  ground  cinnamon,  
 ginger,  and  soda,  half a
pound of  flour  (light weight). 
 First, put  butter  (partly melted) into the 
 molasses,  then 
 spices. Dissolve the  soda  in
the  boiling water;  stir it into the 
 molasses,  etc.; then the 
 flour.   Cream of tartar  should
not be used with  molasses.  
 
 
  CHOCOLATE-CAKE. Make a
cup-cake with the following ingredients: One cupful of 
 butter,  two cupfuls of 
 sugar, three cupfuls of  flour, 
one cupful of  milk,  four  eggs 
beaten separately, one tea-spoonful of  soda,  two
tea-spoonfuls of  cream of tartar,  or two tea-spoonfuls
of  yeast powder.  
 Cut the cup-cake, when baked, through the middle, or bake it in two or three
parts. Put a layer of the chocolate mixture between and on the top and sides of
the cake. 
  Chocolate Mixture. --Five table-spoonfuls of
grated  chocolate,  with enough 
 cream  or  milk  to wet it, one
cupful of  sugar,  and one 
 egg well beaten. Stir the ingredients over the fire
until thoroughly mixed; then flavor with  vanilla.  
 
 
  MOUNTAIN-CAKE. Ingredients:  Whites of
six eggs,  one and a quarter cupfuls of 
 sugar,  one and a quarter cupfuls of 
 flour,  half a cupful of 
 butter,  half a cupful of  sweet
milk,  half a cupful of  corn starch,  a
little  vanilla,  two tea-spoonfuls of 
 baking powder.  
 Bake it in two or three parts, like jelly-cake; put a frosting between the
layers and on top of the cake, made of the  whites of four
eggs,  nine table-spoonfuls of  pulverized
sugar,  and a little  vanilla;  or use
grated  cocoa-nut,  mixed thickly in the frosting,
without  vanilla;  or use the  chocolate
mixture  in the preceding receipt; or make it a jelly-cake. 
  
 
  CREAM CAKE OR PIE  ( Mrs. Arnold ). 
 This is an excellent dessert cut as a pie, or it may be served as a cake for
tea. 
  Crust. --Three  eggs,  one
cupful of  sugar,  one cupful of 
 flour,  one-third of a tea-spoonful of 
 soda,  and one tea-spoonful of  cream of
tartar.  Beat the  whites  and 
 yolks  well separately; stir all together as quickly as
possible, and bake in two pans (if rather small; if large, use only one), the
batter three-quarters of an inch thick. 
  Cream. --Two and a half cupfuls of 
 sweet milk,  four even table-spoonfuls of 
 sugar,  two table-spoonfuls of 
 flour,  and one  egg.  Boil this
a few moments until it has thickened, and flavor with 
 vanilla  or  lemon.  
 When the crust is cold, split it, and put the custard between. 
 This cake is much improved with a  boiled icing.  
 
 
  SPONGE JELLY-CAKE  ( Mrs. Pope ). 
 Ingredients: Five  eggs,  one cupful of 
 sugar,  one cupful of 
 flour, two even tea-spoonfuls of 
 yeast-powder,  and grated  rind of a
lemon.  
 Beat the  yolks,   sugar,  and
 lemon  together to a  cream; add
 whites of eggs  beaten to a stiff froth; then the 
 flour  and 
 yeast-powder perfectly mixed. Bake in a 
 dripping-pan,  and when done spread  jelly
(not sweet)  over the bottom of the cake, roll it from the side,
and sprinkle  sugar  over the top; or bake it in two or
three jelly-cake pans, and spread jelly between. The cake may be iced on the
bottom. The rolled jelly-cake may be cut into slices, and served with a 
 sweet sauce  for dessert. 
 
 
  COCOA-NUT
CONES. Ingredients: One pound of 
 cocoa-nut grated, half a pound of 
 sugar,  the  whites of two
eggs,  and the  yolk of one egg.  
 Beat the  yolk  well; add the 
 sugar  to it; then the 
 cocoa-nut  and  whites of the
eggs  beaten to a stiff froth. Drop by the tea-spoonful on sheets
of buttered paper placed on tins. Form each little cake into the shape of a
cone, and bake in a moderate oven about half an hour. 
  
 
  CROQUANTE CAKE  ( Mrs. Lackland ). 
 Ingredients: Three-quarters of a pound of shelled 
 almonds,  half a pound of 
 citron,  three-quarters of a pound of 
 sugar,  three-quarters of a pound of 
 flour,  and six  eggs.  
 Blanch and halve the  almonds,  and slice the 
 citron;  mix them well together, and roll them in 
 flour;  add to them the 
 sugar, then the  eggs  (well
beaten), lastly the  flour.  
 Butter  shallow pans, and lay in the mixture two inches
thick. After it is baked in a quick oven, slice the cake into strips one inch
wide, and turn every strip. Return the pan to the oven, and bake the sides a
little. When cold, put it away in tin boxes. This cake will keep a year or
more, and for reserve use is quite invaluable. 
 
 
  TO BLANCH ALMONDS. Put
them over the fire in  cold water,  and let them remain
until the  water  is almost at the boiling-point, not
allowing them to boil; then throw them into  cold
water.  Remove the skins, and dry the 
 almonds  in a cloth before using. 
 When they are to be pounded for macaroons, 
 m&#233;ringues,  etc., they should be first dried
for two or three days in a gentle heat. 
 
 
  REBECCA CAKE  ( Mrs. North ). 
 Ingredients: Half a cupful of  butter,  one cupful of
 sugar,  one cupful of  sweet
milk,  one  egg,  one pint of 
 flour,  one tea-spoonful of 
 soda,  and two tea-spoonfuls of  cream of
tartar.  
 For a change, a cupful of  raisins  or of 
 English currants,  or a mixture of both, or an addition
of sliced  citron,  may be added. 
 
 
  GINGER-SNAPS  ( Mrs. Leach ). 
 Ingredients: One pint of  molasses,  one
coffee-cupful of  brown sugar,  one coffee-cupful of 
 butter,  one table-spoonful of 
 ginger,  and one heaping tea-spoonful of 
 soda  dissolved in one table-spoonful of 
 hot water.  
 Mix very thick with  flour,  and roll them very
thin. 
 
 
  PLAIN
COOKIES. Ingredients: One cupful of  butter (or
half  butter  and half 
 lard ), two cupfuls of 
 sugar, one cupful of  milk,  two
 eggs, about a quart of  flour 
(cookies are better to have no more  flour  than is
necessary for rolling them thin without sticking), three tea-spoonfuls (not
heaping) of  yeast-powder,  or one tea-spoonful of 
 cream of tartar  and half a tea-spoonful of 
 soda.  
  Sour milk  can be used, when add the half
tea-spoonful of  soda,  and omit the  cream
of tartar.  Bake in a quick oven. 
 
 
  ALMOND
MACAROONS. Blanch and skin eight ounces of  Jordan almonds
and one ounce of bitter ones;  dry them on a sieve, and pound them
to a smooth paste in a  mortar,  adding occasionally a
very little  water,  to prevent them from getting oily;
add to them five ounces of  pulverized sugar,  one
tea-spoonful of  rice flour,  and the  whites
of three eggs  beaten to a stiff froth; with a spoon, put this on
paper in drops the size of a walnut; bake in a slow oven until they are of a
light-brown color, and firmly set; take them from the paper by wetting the
under side of it. 
 
 
  LADY'S-FINGERS. Mix six
 yolks of eggs  with half a pound of 
 powdered sugar;  work the preparation with a spoon
until it is frothy; then mix into it the  whites of six
eggs  well beaten, and at the same time a quarter of a pound of 
 flour,  dried and sifted. Put this batter into a 
  m&#233;ringue  bag,  and
squeeze it through in strips, two or three inches long, and sprinkle over some
fine  sugar;  bake in a slack oven twelve or fourteen
minutes. 
 
 
  M&#233;RINGUES &#224; LA
CR&#232;ME. Ingredients: Six  whites of
eggs, nine ounces of  pulverized sugar, 
half a pint of  cream (whipped),  three ounces of 
 sugar  with the  cream,  a
slight flavoring of  vanilla.  
 Whip the  eggs  to a very stiff froth, add three or
four drops of  vanilla,  and mix in the 
 pulverized sifted sugar,  by turning the 
 sugar  all over the  eggs  at
once, and cutting it together very carefully. Sprinkle 
 sugar  over a tin platter, and on it place
table-spoonfuls of this mixture at convenient distances apart; smooth the tops,
and sprinkle a little  sugar  over them also. 
 
 The secret of making 
 m&#233;ringues  is in the baking. Put them into a
moderate oven, and leave the oven-door open for thirty-five minutes at least.
They should not be allowed to color for that time, which would prevent them for
drying properly, and a thin paper crust is very undesirable for a 
 m&#233;ringue;  in fact, the longer they dry before
coloring, the thicker will be the crust. They should be in the oven at least
three-quarters of an hour, only allowing them to color slightly the last two or
three minutes. While they are still hot, scoop out carefully the soft contents,
and when they are cold fill them with  whipped
cream, press two of them together, forming a ball, and put them
into the refrigerator to set the  cream.  
   Whipped Cream. --Add the three
ounces of  sugar  and a flavoring of 
 vanilla,   sherry,  or any thing
preferred, to the  cream,  and when whipped put the
froth into a  kitchen bowl,  and whip it again with the 
 egg-whip  or a  machine
egg-beater; this makes it finer-grained and stiffer.  
  A much prettier arrangement for desert is the 
 m&#233;ringue  as it is fashioned at Delmonico's.
Instead of little 
 m&#233;ringues,  each one is made a half ball,
about six inches in diameter. They are dried very slowly, so that the crust is
about one-third of an inch thick. When  An
illustration of a decorated meringue served on a round
platter.  emptied of the soft interiors, and when
cold, two shells are placed on a platter, like an open clam-shell. The 
 whipped cream,  when about to serve (already set, by
being on the  ice ), is banked between them, reaching as
high above as suits the fancy. The  cream  may be
decorated with  strawberries,  
 raspberries,  etc., or it may be served without
ornamentation.  
 
 
  GERMAN CAKE  ( Mrs. Schulenburg ). 
 Ingredients: One pound of  flour,  three-quarters of
a pound of  butter,  six ounces of 
 sugar,  one  egg,  half a cupful
of  rum.  
 Bake in a  pie-pan,  pressing the cake until it is
about one-quarter  of an inch high. Before baking,
sprinkle  sugar  and ground 
 cinnamon  on top; after it is baked, cut it into
squares while it is yet warm. 
 
 
  RANAQUE
BUNS. Ingredients: One pound of  butter,  one
and a quarter pounds of  sugar,  two pounds of 
 flour,  six  eggs,  four
table-spoonfuls of ground  cinnamon.  
 Mix the  cinnamon  into the 
 flour;  rub the  butter  to a
cream, then mix the  flour  with it. Beat the 
 sugar  with the  eggs,  then all
together, as little s possible. Distribute this by the spoonful into
rough-looking cakes on buttered tins placed at a little distance apart. This is
very nice lunch-cake. 
 
 
  FROSTING. The old way
of making frosting was a half-day's work. I now laugh at the extra exertion
once made to be sure that the  eggs  were sufficiently
and properly beaten. The following is the true way to make frosting, which is
done and dried on the cake in ten minutes, allowing three minutes for the
making: 
 Use a heaping tea-cupful of fine  pulverized sugar to
the  white of each egg,  or, say, a pound of 
 sugar  to the  whites of three
eggs.  Beat the  whites  until they are
slightly 
 foaming  only; do not beat them to a froth. The 
 sugar  may all be poured on the 
 egg  at once, or, if considered easier to mix, it may
be gradually added. Either way, as soon as the 
 sugar and  eggs  are thoroughly
stirred together, and flavored with a little  lemon  or 
 vanilla,  the icing is ready to spread over the cake.
It would be advisable to ice the cakes as soon as they are taken from the oven.
The icing made with the  white of one egg  is quite
sufficient to frost an ordinary-sized cake. 
 It is very little extra trouble to decorate a frosted cake. One can purchase
funnels for the purpose with different shaped ends. In place of no better
funnel, make a cornucopia of stiff writing-paper; fill it with the frosting,
and press it out at the small end, forming different shapes, according to
taste, over the cake. Little centre-pieces or leaves can always be purchased at
the confectioner's to aid in the decoration.  
  For a cocoa-nut cake, mix plenty of the grated 
 cocoa-nut  into the frosting, which spread over the
cake; decorate it then with  plain
frosting.   
  For a chocolate-cake, after spreading over the 
 chocolate frosting  mentioned in the receipt for
chocolate-cake, decorate it with delicate lines of the  white
frosting.   
 The appearance of boiled icing (which is generally flavored with lemon) is
much improved also by a decoration with the plain white frosting. 
 
 
  BOILED
ICING. Ingredients: One pound of  sugar,  
 whites of three eggs.  
 First, boil the  sugar  with a little 
 water;  when it is ready to candy, or will spin in
threads when dropping from the end of a spoon, take it off the fire, and while
it is still boiling hot add the  whites of the eggs  
 well  beaten, stirring them in as fast as possible.
Flavor with  lemon  (if preferred), 
 vanilla,   Jamaica rum,  or any
of the  flavorings,  and it is ready for use. 
    CANDIES. 
 
  CARAMELS  ( Mrs.
Wadsworth ). 
 Ingredients: One cupful of best  sirup,  one cupful
of  brown sugar,  one cupful of  white
sugar,  two cupfuls of grated 
 chocolate, two cupfuls of 
 cream,   vanilla,  one
tea-spoonful of  flour  mixed with the 
 cream.  
 Rub the  chocolate  to a smooth paste with a little
of the  cream;  boil all together half an hour, and pour
it into flat dishes to cool; mark it with a knife into little squares when it
is cool enough. 
 
 
  WHITE-SUGAR CANDY  ( Miss Eliza Brown ). 
 Ingredients: Four pounds of  sugar,  one pint of 
 water,  four table-spoonfuls of 
 cream,  four table-spoonfuls of 
 vinegar,   butter  the size of
an egg. 
 Boil all together slowly for about three-quarters of an hour. 
  
 
  VINEGAR CANDY  ( Mrs. Clifford ). 
 Ingredients: Three cupfuls of  sugar,  half a cupful
of  vinegar,  half a cupful of 
 water,  one tea-spoonful of 
 soda.  
 When it boils, stir in the  soda.  If the candy is
preferred clear, stir it as little as possible; if grained stir it. 
    ICES. 
 WITH a  patent five-minute freezer  (it really takes,
however, from fifteen minutes to half an hour to freeze any thing), it is as
cheap and easy to make ices in summer as almost any other kind of dessert. If
one has cream, the expense is very little, as a 
 cream-whipper  costs but twenty-five cents. A simple
cream, sweetened, flavored, whipped, and then frozen, is one of the most
delicious of ice-creams. By having the cream quite cold, a pint can be whipped,
with this  cream-whipper,  in five or ten minutes. It will
require ten cents' worth of ice--half of it to freeze the preparation, and the
other half to keep it frozen until the time of serving. Salt is not
proverbially expensive; a half-barrel or bushel of coarse salt will last a long
time, especially as a portion of it can be used a second time. In summer,
fruits, such as peaches or pears, quartered, or any kind of berries, are most
delicious half frozen and served with sugar. The chocolate ice-cream with fruit
is excellent. The devices of form for creams served at handsome dinners in
large cities are very beautiful; for instance, one sees a hen surrounded by her
chickens; or a hen sitting on the side of a spun-glass nest, looking sideways
at her eggs; or a fine collection of fruits in colors. One may see also a
perfect imitation of asparagus with cream-dressing, the asparagus being made of
the 
 pistache  cream, and the dressing simply a whipped
cream. These fancy displays are, of course, generally arranged by the
confectioner. It is a convenience, of course, when giving dinner companies, to
have the dessert or any other course made outside of the house; but for
ordinary occasions, ices are no more troublesome to prepare
  than any thing else, especially when they can be
made early in the day, or even the day before serving. 
 
  FROZEN WHIPPED
CREAM. Flavor and sweeten the  cream,  making
it rather sweet. Whip it, and freeze the froth. 
 
 
  VANILLA ICE-CREAM. Beat
the  yolks of eight eggs  with three-quarters of a pound
of  sugar  until very light. Put one and a half pints of
 rich milk  on the fire to scald, highly flavored with
the powdered  vanilla-bean  (say, one heaping
table-spoonful). When the  milk  is well scalded, stir
it into the  eggs  as soon as it is cool enough not to
curdle. Now stir the mixture constantly (the  custard
pan or pail being set in a vessel of  boiling
water ) until it has slightly thickened. Do not let it remain too
long and curdle, or it will be spoiled. When taken off the fire again, mix in a
quarter of a box of  gelatine,  which has been soaked
half an hour in two table-spoonfuls of  lukewarm water 
near the fire. The heat of the custard will be sufficient to dissolve it, if it
is not already sufficiently dissolved. Cool the custard well before putting it
into the freezer, as this saves time and  ice.  When it
is in the freezer, however, stir it almost constantly until it begins to set;
then stir in lightly a pint of  cream,  whipped. Stir it
for two or three minutes longer, put it into a mold, and return it to a second
relay of ice and  salt.  The  powdered
vanilla  can be purchased at drug-stores or at confectioners'. It
is much better than the extract for any purpose, and is used by all the best 
 restauranteurs.  
 
 
  DELMONICO VANILLA
CREAM. Ingredients: One and a half pints of 
 cream,  one ounce of 
 isinglass,  one pound of 
 sugar,   yolks of eight
eggs, half a pint of  milk,  
 vanilla powder.  
  Scald  the  cream  only;
then add the  isinglass  dissolved in the 
 milk,  and pour it on the 
 sugar  and  eggs  beaten
together to a froth; add the flavoring. Strain, cool, and freeze it; then pack
it for three hours and a half at least. 
  
 
  CHOCOLATE ICE-CREAM is
made in the same way as the vanilla ice-cream, adding a flavoring of 
 chocolate  and a little  vanilla
powder.  For instance, to make a quart and a half of cream: Make
the  boiled custard  with the  yolks of six
eggs,  half a pound of  sugar,  one pint of
boiled  milk,  and a tea-spoonful (not heaping) of 
 vanilla powder.  Pound smooth four ounces of 
 chocolate;  add a little 
 sugar and one or two table-spoonfuls of  hot
water.  Stir it over the fire until it is perfectly smooth. Add
this and a table-spoonful of thin,  dissolved gelatine 
to the hot custard. When about to set in the freezer, add one pint of 
 cream, whipped. 
 
 
  TO MAKE A MOLD OF CHOCOLATE AND
VANILLA CREAMS.   A mound of ice cream served
on a round platter.  Freeze the different 
 creams  in two freezers. Cut a piece of 
 pasteboard  to fit the centre of a mold; fill each side
with the two creams, remove the  pasteboard,  and imbed
the mold in  ice  and  salt  for
two hours. 
 
 
  STRAWBERRY
ICE-CREAM. Sprinkle  sugar  over 
 strawberries,  mash them well, and rub them through a
sieve. To a pint of the  juice  add half a pint of good 
 cream.  Make it very sweet. Freeze it in the usual way,
and, when beginning to set, stir in lightly pint of  cream
(whipped),  and, lastly, a handful of whole 
 strawberries,  sweetened. Put it into a mold, which
imbed in ice. Or, when fresh  strawberries  can not be
obtained, there is no more delicious  cream  than that
made with the  French bottled strawberries.  Mix the 
 juice  in the bottle with the 
 cream,  and add the  whipped
cream  and the whole  strawberries,  when
the  juice,  etc., have partly set in the freezer. 
 Many prefer this  cream  of a darker red color, which
is obtained by using  prepared cochineal.  
  
 
  NAPOLITAINE CREAM. To
make a form of three colors:  Vanilla, chocolate, and strawberry
ice-creams  are frozen in three different freezers,
and  A brick of ice cream with three
layers.  filled in a mold the form of a brick in
three smooth layers of equal size. 
 
 
  CHOCOLATE FRUIT
ICE-CREAM. Make a  chocolate cream.  When set
in the freezer, add about half a pound of assorted  French candied
or preserved fruits  cut into small pieces. Put it into a
melon-shaped mold, to imitate a plum-pudding. When ready to serve, turn the 
 cream  on a platter, and make a circle around it of
whipped  A mold of chocolate fruit ice cream
surrounded by whipped cream and served on an oval
platter.   cream,  sweetened
and flavored with  vanilla.  This 
 cream  is a decided success, and a beautiful dessert
for a dinner-party. It may be improved by sprinkling over it chopped 
 almonds  dried of a light-brown color, mixed with
chopped  pistachios.  This is intended to imitate the
rugged appearance of the rind of a melon. 
 
 
  FROZEN FRUIT
CUSTARD. Ingredients: One pint of  rich
milk, one pint of  cream (whipped),  
 yolks of three eggs,  one and a half cupfuls of 
 sugar,  one pint of fresh 
 peaches  cut into pieces not too small, or fresh ripe 
 berries.  
 Beat the  eggs  and 
 sugar well together. Heat the pint of
   milk  almost to the
boiling-point, and add it gradually to the beaten  eggs 
and  sugar. Return it to the 
 custard-kettle,  and stir it constantly until it has
slightly thickened, taking care that it does not curdle. When the custard is
partly frozen, having stirred it in the usual way, add the  whipped
cream;  stir a few minutes longer, and then stir in the 
 fruit.  Put all into a mold, which place in a fresh
relay of  ice  and  salt.  
 
 
  GERMAN STEAMER BAKED
ICE-CREAM. This dish was at least a curiosity, served at the table of
one of the German steamers. A flat, round 
 sponge-cake served as a base. A circular mold of very
hard frozen  ice-cream  was placed on this, and then
covered with a  m&#233;ringue,  or
whipped  white of egg,  sweetened and flavored. The
surface was quickly colored with a red-hot  salamander, 
which gave the dish the appearance of being baked. 
 The gentleman who told me about this dish insisted that it was put into the
oven and quickly colored, as the  egg  surrounding the 
 cream  was a sufficiently good non-conductor of heat to
protect the ice for one or two minutes. However, there is less risk with a 
 salamander.  
 
 
  PINE-APPLE ICE-CREAM
PUDDING. Add one pound of  pine-apple  grated
fine to the  yolks of eight eggs  well beaten with one
pound of  sugar,  one and a half pints of boiled 
 cream,  and a very little 
 salt.  Stir all together  A
pineapple ice cream pudding surrounded with whipped cream and decorated with
the top of the pineapple.  over the fire until it
begins to thicken. When beginning to set in the freezer (having stirred it in
the usual way), add a pint of  cream (whipped).  This
addition of the  whipped cream  is a great improvement,
although it is generally omitted. Put it into a form. When ready to serve,
press the tuft of  leaves,  cut from the
   pine-apple  and trimmed,
in the top of the  cream.  Surround it with 
 whipped and sweetened cream.  
 
 
  ICED RICE-PUDDING  ( Francatelli ). 
 Wash and parboil half a pound of  rice;  then put it
into a  stew-pan,  with a quart of 
 milk  and a pint of  cream,  two
sticks of  vanilla,  three-quarters of a pound of 
 sugar,  and a little 
 salt. Allow the  rice  to simmer
very gently over or by a slow fire, until the grains are almost dissolved,
stirring it occasionally with a light hand. When the 
 rice  is done, and while it is yet hot, add the 
 yolks of six eggs;  then stir all well together for
several minutes, in order to mix in the  eggs,  and also
for the purpose of breaking up and smoothing the  rice. 
Let this rice custard be frozen like a ordinary ice-cream, stirring it from the
sides until it is set, when put it into a mold, and immerse it in the 
 ice  and  salt.  
 While the above part of the process is going on, a 
 comp&#244;te  of twelve 
 oranges  should be prepared in the following manner:
First, separate them into sections, and remove every particle of the white pith
with a small knife, laying the transparent pulp of the 
 fruit  quite bare. When all the 
 oranges  are ready, throw them into a 
 stew-pan  containing about a pint of 
 sirup  (made with one pound
of  An iced rice pudding served with fruit on a round
platter.   sugar  and nearly
a pint of clear  water ); allow the pieces of 
 oranges  to boil up gently in this for two minutes, and
then drain them in a sieve. Boil the sirup down to about one-half of its
original quantity; then add two wine-glasses of 
 cura&#231;oa  and three table-spoonfuls of 
 peach marmalade  or  apricot
jam;  mix all together, and pour this preparation over the 
 oranges  in a basin. When about to send the pudding to
table, turn it out of the mold on a platter, dress the 
 comp&#244;te  of  oranges  on
the top and around the base, pour the sirup over it, and serve. 
  
 
  BISCUIT GLAC&#233;S, IN SMALL
CASES. Beat well eight  yolks of eggs,  with
ten ounces of  sugar,  and a very little 
 salt;  add one pint of 
 cream. Stir over the fire until slightly thickened.
Flavor with  vanilla powder,  the  extract of
almonds,   lemon,  or with 
 coffee  or  chocolate.  It may
also be made by adding   Pur&#233;e  of
peaches, strawberries, raspberries, or pine-apple  to the custard.
When just beginning to set in the freezer, stir in lightly one-half pint of 
 cream (whipped);  then partly fill  paper
cases with the mixture. Smooth over the tops. Set the cases in the
freezer well dried, and allow them to harden until ready to serve. 
 
 
  BISCUIT GLAC&#233;S  ( Francatelli ). 
 Ingredients: One pint of  clarified sirup,  twelve 
 yolks of eggs,  two whole 
 eggs,  a large wine-glassful of 
 maraschino.  
 Mix the whole of the ingredients in an earthen basin; then pour the
preparation into an  egg-bowl  that has been previously
warmed with  hot water  and wiped dry. Whisk the 
 souffl&#233;  briskly (the  egg
bowl  being placed on a stove containing hot ashes) until it
resembles a well-prepared, firm, sponge-cake batter. Fill the  paper
cases  with the preparation, and smooth over the tops. Place them in
a tin pail or in the freezer, surrounded with  ice  and 
 salt,  and half a pound of 
 saltpetre  mixed, and let them remain well covered for
three or four hours at least, before serving, without stirring them. Or, they
may be frozen all together in one mold, and some sifted  macaroon
powder  or grated  chocolate  sprinkled over
the surface, to imitate a baked 
 souffl&#233;.  
 
 
  NESSELRODE PUDDING  ( Car&#234;me's Receipt ). 
 Ingredients: Forty  chestnuts,  one pound of 
 sugar,  flavoring of 
 vanilla, one pint of  cream, 
the  yolks of twelve eggs,  one glass of 
 maraschino,  one ounce of  candied
citron,  two ounces of  currants,  two
ounces of stoned  raisins.  
 Blanch the  chestnuts  in  boiling
water,  remove the husks, and pound them in a 
 mortar  until perfectly smooth, adding a few spoonfuls of
the  sirup;  then rub them through a fine
  sieve, and mix them in a basin with a pint of
sirup, made from one pound of  sugar,  clarified, and
flavored with  vanilla;  one pint of 
 cream,  and the  yolks of twelve
eggs.  Set this mixture over a slow fire, stirring it 
 without ceasing,  until the 
 eggs  begin to thicken (without allowing them to
curdle), then take it off. When it is cold, put it into the freezer, adding the
 maraschino,  and make the mixture set; then add the
sliced  citron,  the 
 currants, and stoned  raisins 
(these two latter should be soaked the day previous in maraschino, and 
 sugar  pounded with vanilla ) to
the whole. Thus mingled, add a plateful of whipped
cream,  mixed with the  whites of three
eggs  beaten to a froth. When the pudding is perfectly frozen, put
it into a mold, close the lid, place it again in the freezer, well surrounded
with pounded  ice  and 
 saltpetre,  and let it remain until the time of
serving, when turn it out of the mold. 
 
 
  ICED
PUDDING. Ingredients: One and one-half pints of 
 custard,  composed of the  yolks of four
eggs,  a pint of boiled  milk,  four
table-spoonfuls of  sugar,  a flavoring of 
 vanilla,  eight ounces of 
 fruits,  consisting of equal parts of  dried
cherries,   pine-apple,   dried
pears,  or  apricots,  all cut into very
small squares. These  fruits  may be selected, or
perhaps it would be more convenient to purchase half a pound of the 
 French preserved dried fruits;  or add one ounce of 
 candied citron  sliced, two ounces of 
 currants,  two ounces of stoned and chopped 
 raisins,  and half a pint of 
 cream  whipped. 
 Freeze the custard in the usual manner, then mix in the 
 fruits  and  whipped cream.  A
gill of  maraschino  is an improvement to this pudding,
but may be omitted. If added, it should be at the same time with the 
 fruit.  Put into a mold, and place it on 
 ice  and  salt.  Serve 
 whipped cream  around it. 
 
 
  TUTTI FRUTTI. When a
rich  vanilla cream  is partly frozen, 
 candied cherries,   English
currants,  chopped  raisins,  chopped 
 citron,  or any other  candied
fruits  chopped rather fine, are added; add about the same quantity
of  fruit  as there is of  ice
cream.  Mold and imbed  in 
 ice  and  salt.  It may be
served surrounded with a  whipped cream.  
 
 
  FRESH PEACHES HALF
FROZEN. An exceedingly nice dish for breakfast, lunch, or tea may be
made of quarters of large fresh  peaches,  
 half  frozen, and then sprinkled with 
 granulated sugar.  
 
 
  PEACHES AND CREAM
FROZEN. Peel and quarter the fresh 
 peaches; mix them with  sugar 
and  cream to taste. Arrange some of the quarters of the
 peaches tastefully in the bottom of a basin, or 
  charlotte  mold,  then fill,
and freeze the mass solid, without stirring. Turn it out to serve. 
 
 
  LEMON ICE. Boil three
pints of  water  and one quart of 
 loaf-sugar  until reduced to nearly one quart of
liquid, skimming it when necessary. When cold, add the  juice of
seven lemons,  and the thin-sliced yellow part of the 
 rind  of four of them. Let it infuse an hour. Strain it
into the freezer without pressing. When beginning to set in the freezer, stir
in lightly and well the beaten  whites of four eggs. Put
into a mold, and return it to a fresh relay of  salt 
and  ice.  Or it may be frozen and served in the 
 lemon-skins.  A neat slice is taken off the top of the 
 lemon.  The  juice,  etc., is
carefully removed. When the preparation is set in the freezer, the 
 skins  are filled, the tops fitted over, and all
imbedded in the  ice.  I once saw at one of Delmonico's
dinners a course of these  lemons  (one for each person)
filled with  Roman punch.  
 
 
  CURRANT ICE. Boil one
quart of  water  and a pound of 
 sugar  until reduced about a pint-- i.e.,  until a pint of  water  has
boiled away; skim it, take it off the fire, and add a pint of 
 currant-juice;  when partly frozen, stir in the beaten 
 whites of four eggs.  Mold, and freeze again. A good
ice for fever patients. 
   
  COOKERY FOR THE SICK. 
 I BELIEVE it is the general practice now to give a patient, in almost every
kind of illness, food that is very nourishing, yet very digestible, that the
system may become strengthened to throw off its disease. 
 I devote a chapter to "cookery for the sick," as it is such a useful and
delightful accomplishment to know just how to prepare the few available dishes
for invalids, so that while they may be most suitable food for the recovery of
the patient, they may at the same time be most agreeable to the taste and
pleasing to the eye. 
 The three events of the day to the sufferer are the three meals. How
gratefully is it remembered if they have been delicately and carefully
administered! Let the mother or the wife prepare them with her own hands; let
her never ask an invalid what he will have to eat, but with thought and
ingenuity strive to vary the bill of fare each day, always providing proper
nourishment. This is an art in itself which can be delegated to no one. It is
worth as much to the suffering and beloved patient as is the medical
prescription of the physician. 
 Never leave an article of diet in the sick-room: it is a good means of
destroying the appetite, which should be encouraged and not weakened. 
 Whatever is served, let great attention be paid to giving the dish, after it
is properly cooked, a dainty appearance. Place it on the choicest of ware in
the house, with the cleanest of napkins, and the brightest of sliver, even if
that consists only of a tea-spoon. 
 If tea and toast be served, put the tea, freshly drawn, into the daintiest
of  tea-cups.  Every family might well afford to buy one
little, thin china cup and saucer, to use in case of illness; put a square of
loaf-sugar into it. A few drops of cream are easily saved for the patient's tea
from a small quantity of milk; and cream in small quantities is considered more
digestible than milk. 
 All cooks think they can make toast. There is about one person in ten
thousand who really does know how to make it;  who
actually appreciates the difference between a thin, symmetrical, well-yellowed,
crisp piece of toast with the crust cut off, and just from the fire, and a
thick, unshapely slice, unevenly crisped on the outside, and of doughy softness
in the centre. One is digestible; the other is exceedingly indigestible. The 
 scientific  mode of making toast is explained on page
67. 
 Of the laxative articles of diet, undoubtedly one of the most important is
the oatmeal porridge. The chemists say, "Oatmeal stands before all other grains
in point of nutritive power." I do not mean to serve gruel, but a thicker
preparation, of considerable consistence, which is more palatable. The mode of
making it is explained on page 74. Put a heaping table-spoonful of this on a
thin saucer; pour some cream over it; then sprinkle over this a little
granulated sugar. Now place the saucer on a little 
 salver,  on which is spread the whitest of napkins. 
 Always remember that in cooking any of the grains, as, for instance,
corn-meal, oatmeal, hominy, cracked-wheat, etc., let them be thrown into 
 salted boiling  water. This makes very great
difference in the flavor of the dish. Make every thing in small quantities, so
that the patient may always have his dishes 
 freshly  made. 
 A very nourishing, digestible, and excellent dish for invalids is a raw,
fresh egg, the receipt for administering which is given among the invalid
receipts (see page 322). 
 In regard to rice, Dr. Lee remarks: "We regard rice as the most valuable of
all the articles of food in cases of the derangement of the digestive organs.
It nourishes, while it soothes the irritable mucous membrane; and while it
supports strength, never seems to aggravate the existing disease. For acute or
chronic affections of the alimentary canal, rice-water for drink and rice-jelly
for food seem peculiarly well adapted, and appear to exert a specific influence
in bringing about a recovery. These preparations are invaluable also in
convalescence from acute fevers and other maladies, and in the summer
complaints of young children." 
 Jellies made with gelatine or calf's feet are very appetizing, but must not
be relied on as furnishing much nourishment.  They
afford a pleasant vehicle for administering wine, of which the stimulating
properties are often very advantageous. I copy a short article from Booth's
"Chemistry" on the subject: 
 "Gelatine in domestic economy is used in the forms of soup and jelly as an
aliment; but though experiments seem to show that when mixed with fibrous,
albuminous, and caseous substances it becomes nutritive, this conclusion is yet
doubtful; for the theory of respiration proves that histrose, which produces
the gelatine, has accomplished its part in the animal organization, and can no
longer afford sustenance thereto. One fact, however, seems positive, and that
is its inability alone to yield nourishment to carnivorous animals. The feeble
nutritive power of a gelatinous matter seems to be owing to the destruction of
its organization." 
 On the same subject of the dietetical value of gelatine, Professor Youmans
says: "It is regarded as a product of the partial decomposition of albuminous
bodies in the system, but as incapable of replacing them when taken as aliment.
The French attempted to feed the inmates of their hospitals on gelatinous
extract of bones. Murmurs arose, and a commission, with Magendie at their head,
was appointed to investigate the manner. They reported gelatine as,
dietetically, almost worthless." 
 Graham bread, corn bread, or the Boston brown-bread, made with part rye
flour, are much more nourishing than breads made from bolted wheat. The whiter
the wheat flour, the more starch it contains, and the less gluten, which is
separated in bolting, and which is the nutritious, or flesh-producing portion.
The rich Boston brown-bread is especially good cut into thin, even pieces, with
a little cream, poured over it. 
 The value of corn-meal for invalids who are thin and incapable of
maintaining their natural warmth is scarcely appreciated. Indian-corn contains
a large percentage of oil, which is nourishing and fattening. Fat is the
heat-producing power. 
 As to the meats, it seems to me a mistake that that from the ox, with his
wholesome food, cleanly habits, sweet breath, and clear eye, is not the most
wholesome and digestible of aliments. Not meat is so tender and juicy as the
cut from the tenderloin or the porter-house steak. 
 
 Pork should be avoided in every form by invalids. 
 I can not but believe that rare-cooked, tender beef if the most valuable
dish in the culinary r&#233;pertoire for invalids; yet Dr. Beaumont, after
experimenting with St. Martin, ranks venison, when tender and in season, as the
most digestible and assimilable of meats. He classes mutton second; then beef.
Lamb is less digestible than mutton. Veal should be avoided as well as pork.
Fatty substances are also difficult of assimilation. Poultry is less digestible
than beef. Then, again, the manner of cooking beef has a great influence on its
digestibility. The best modes are broiling and roasting. Potatoes roasted or
baked are digested an hour sooner than potatoes boiled. 
 Before beginning the receipts for especial dishes, I will copy a little
story, which furnishes an illustration that the simplest modes of cooking are,
after all, the most satisfactory. 
 "The Vicomte de Vaudreuil, when appointed 
 charg&#233; d'affaires  of France to the Court of
St. James's, brought over with him a young cook, an 
 &#233;l&#232;ve  of the highest schools of the 
 cuisines  of Paris. This young culinary aspirant to
fame, shortly after his arrival in London, obtained permission of his master to
go and witness the artistic operations of that established 
 cordon-bleu,  Monsieur Mingay, the cook to Prince
Esterhazy, who had been brought up under the Prince Talleyrand's famous 
 chef,  Louis, and previously under the most 
 bleu  of all 
 cordons,  the great Car&#234;me. On the 
 &#233;l&#232;ve's  return, the Vicomte, hearing
that his cook was in a state of astonishment from something he had witnessed in
Prince Esterhazy's kitchen, summoned him to his presence, and said, "What is
this culinary miracle, which I have heard astonishes you, and casts into the
shade all other triumphs of the art?" Vatel's follower replied, "Oh, Monsieur
le Vicomte, when I entered the 
 cuisine  at Chandos House it was near the time of the
prince's luncheon, for which his excellency had ordered something which should
be very simple and easily digestible, as he was suffering from languor. The 
 chef,  Mingay, accordingly cut from under a well-hung
rump of beef three slices of fillet, and rapidly broiling them, he placed the
choicest-looking in the middle of a hot dish, and afterward pressing the juice completely out of the remaining
two, he poured it on the first! Oh, monsieur, how great the prince! how great
the cook!'"   RECEIPTS FOR THE SICK-ROOM. 
 
  TEA. Tea is best, made
fresh in the sick-room. A little 
 t&#234;te-&#224;-t&#234;te  china service is a
pretty ornament for a bedroom, and it is a convenient and tasteful arrangement
for serving tea to invalids. If one has no little tea-pot like that belonging
to the service here referred to, a small one of any other kind is
desirable. 
 Put two tea-spoonfuls of  tea-leaves  into the small
tea-pot; pour two tea-cupfuls of   boiling water  over it; cover it closely, and
let it steam for a few moments. 
 With a small table at the side of the invalid's bed, it is a decidedly
pleasant little diversion to make tea in this manner, being sure at the same
time that it is perfectly fresh. However it is made though, do not present a
cupful of tea to a sufferer with a part of the tea spilled into the saucer. 
 
 To avoid having fat left in the soups, it is safer to allow them to get
entirely cold, when the fat can be easily skimmed off. Just enough can be
heated each time the soup is served. 
 
  BEEF TEA, OR ESSENCE OF
BEEF. Cut, say, a pound of perfectly  lean
beef  into small pieces, put them into a wide-mouthed bottle (a 
 pickle-bottle  answers the purpose), cork it tightly, and
place it in a pot of 
 cold   water  in which there
is a saucer at the bottom. Heat it gradually, then let it boil slowly for two
or three hours, when all the juice will be drawn out of the 
 meat.  
 Now pour off the  juice,  season it with 
 salt  carefully, as it requires very little. When it is
cold, skim off all the globules of fat. 
 This is an invaluable aliment for invalids who are very ill, or for weak
infants, when they need much nourishment in small compass. This beef tea can
then be given by the tea-spoonful at regular intervals, administering it as
medicine. 
  
 
  ANOTHER BEEF TEA ( for Convalescents ). Soak three-quarters of a
pound of small-cut pieces of  lean steak  (say a cut
from a  round steak ) in a pint of  cold
rain-water  for half an hour, squeezing the 
 beef  occasionally; they put it on the fire, cover it,
and boil it slowly for ten minutes, removing the scum. Season with 
 salt,  and serve hot. Serve  Albert
biscuit,  or  thin wafers  (see page 72),
with it. The addition of a little boiled  rice  makes a
pleasant change. 
 
 
  BEEF JUICE. Choose a
thick cut of fine, fresh, juicy  steak  without fat.
Broil it over the coals for only a minute, or long enough to merely heat it
throughout. Put it over a warm bowl set in a basin of  hot
water;  cut it in many places, and squeeze out all the 
 juice  with the aid of the 
 meat-squeezer  (see page 56). 
 Salt  it very slightly. It should be served
immediately, freed from every atom of fat, and accompanied with a 
 wafer cracker.  
 
 
  CHICKEN BROTH. Cut up a
 fowl,  and crack the  bones. Put
it into three pints of  cold water.  Boil it slowly,
closely covered, for three or four hours, or until the 
 meat  falls in pieces. Strain it, then add two
table-spoonfuls of  rice  which has been soaked for half
an hour in a very little  warm water,  also a chopped
sprig of  parsley,  if you have it. Simmer it for twenty
minutes longer, or until the  rice  is thoroughly
cooked. Season with  salt  and 
 pepper,  but not too highly. Serve with 
 crackers,  which should be broken into the 
 broth  the last minute. 
 
 
  CHICKEN
CUSTARD. Ingredients: One half-pint of  chicken
broth,  beaten  yolks of three eggs,  a
little  salt.  Mix well, and cook it in the 
 custard-kettle  (as for boiled custard) until it has
thickened. Serve in  custard-cups.  
 
 
  CHICKEN PANADA. Roast a
small  chicken,  and take out the 
 breasts,  or use more of the 
 meat  if preferred, and add a little 
 salt;  chop it as fine  as
possible, pound it, and pass it through a  colander.  Soak
half the amount of the  crumb of French rolls,  or good 
 bread  (not too fresh), in tepid 
 milk;  squeeze it nearly dry, and mix it with the 
 chicken.  Thin it with a little strong 
 chicken broth  (which may be made with the remainder of
the  chicken ) or with  boiling
water.  Serve it in a  custard-cup,  to be
eaten with a spoon. For convalescents, a very little finely minced 
 parsley  may be added. 
 
 
  MOLD OF CHICKEN
JELLY. Cut half a raw  chicken  into small
pieces, and break the  bones;  put it on the fire with a
quart of  cold water.  Boil it slowly until it is
reduced to less than half; season with  salt  and a
little  pepper,  if the invalid is not too ill for 
 pepper.  Strain it first through a 
 colander,  then a  jelly-bag,  into
a mold or a bowl. If the  chicken  is quite tender,
broil carefully the  breast  of the other half of it;
cut it into dice, or put it whole into the mold or bowl, and cover it with the
liquid. When the jelly has hardened, scrape off the layer of fat at the top of
the mold before turning the jelly on a little oval platter. 
 
 
  CHICKEN AND CEYLON
MOSS. Cut a small  fowl  (two pounds) into
small pieces, and put it over the fire with three pints of  cold
water,  four ounces of  Ceylon moss  (which
can be obtained at the drug-stores), and half a tea-spoonful of 
 salt.  Boil all together an hour; then strain it
through a  jelly-strainer  or napkin into little cups or
molds. 
 
 
  MUTTON BROTH may be
made in the same manner as chicken broth, allowing a quarter of 
 cold water  to each pound of 
 meat.  
 
 
  VEAL AND SAGO BROTH  ( Marian Harland ). 
 Ingredients: Two pounds of  knuckle of veal  cracked
to pieces, two quarts of  cold water,  three
table-spoonfuls of best  pearl sago  soaked in a cupful
of  cold water,  one cupful of 
 cream  heated to boiling, and the  yolks of
two eggs  beaten light. 
 Boil the  veal  and  water  in
a covered saucepan very slowly  until reduced to
one quart of liquid; strain, season with  salt,  and
stir in the soaked  sago  (having previously warmed it
by setting for an hour in a saucepan of  boiling
water, and stirring from time to time). Simmer half an hour, taking
care it does not burn; beat in the  cream  and 
 eggs.  Give one good boil up, and turn out. 
 
 
  BEEF AND TAPIOCA
BROTH. Soak one pound of  beef,  cut into
pieces, in a quart of  cold water  for half an hour;
then boil it slowly, keeping it closely covered for two hours. Strain it. The
last half hour, add half a cupful of  tapioca  (which
has been soaked an hour in a little  water ), a small
sprig of  parsley,  and a thin cut from an 
 onion.  When done, remove the 
 parsley  and  onion;  season
with a very little  pepper  and 
 salt,  and two or three drops only of 
 lemon-juice.  When just ready to serve, put into the
soup an  egg,  carefully poached in  salted
water,  the  white  being merely set. 
 If patients are not too ill, any kind of beef soup made from stock, as
explained on page 80, ought to be advantageous. 
 
 
  HOW TO PREPARE AN UNCOOKED
EGG. This is a delicate, strengthening, and valuable preparation for
an invalid. 
 Beat well the  yolk  and a tea-spoonful of 
 sugar  in a  goblet;  then stir in
one or two tea-spoonfuls of  brandy,  
 sherry,  or  port wine.  Add to
this mixture the  white of the egg  beaten to a stiff
froth. Stir all well together. It should quite fill the 
 goblet.  If wine is not desired, flavor the 
 egg  with  nutmeg.  It is very
palatable without any flavoring at all. 
 
 
  TAPIOCA
JELLY. Ingredients: One cupful of 
 tapioca, four cupfuls of 
 water,   juice and a little of
the grated  rind of one lemon,  and 
 sugar  to taste. 
 Soak the  tapioca  for four or five hours in the 
 water.  Sweeten it, and set it in a pan of 
 boiling water  to cook an hour, or until it is
thoroughly done and quite clear, stirring it frequently. When nearly cooked,
stir in the  lemon;  and when done,
  pour it into little molds. Serve with 
 cream  sweetened and flavored. 
 
 
  SEA-MOSS
BLANC-MANGE. Wash the  moss  well, and soak it
for half an hour or more in a little  cold water.  To
half an ounce or a handful of moss allow one quart of 
 water,  or rather of  rich
milk,  if the patient can take  milk.  When
the  water  or  milk  is boiling,
add the soaked  sea-moss,  and 
 sugar  to taste. Let them simmer until the moss is
entirely dissolved. Strain the  juice  into cups or
little molds. Many boil a stick of  cinnamon  with the 
 water  or  milk,  and flavor
also with  wine;  but the simple flavor of the sea-moss
is very pleasant. It may be served with a little 
 cream and  sugar  poured over
it. 
 
 
  ARROWROOT JELLY OR
BLANC-MANGE. Add two heaping tea-spoonfuls of best 
 arrowroot,  rubbed smooth with a little 
 cold water,  to a coffee-cupful of 
 boiling   water  or 
 rich milk  which has been sweetened with two
tea-spoonfuls of  sugar.  Stir and boil it until it has
thickened. It may be flavored with  lemon-juice  if made
with  water,  or with  brandy  or
 wine  if made with  milk.  it is
very nice without flavoring. Pour into a cup or little mold. Serve with 
 cream  and  sugar  poured over,
or with a   compote  of
fruit around it. 
 
 
  CORN-STARCH AND RICE PUDDINGS are explained
among the regular receipts for puddings. Little circular molds come in form of
Fig. A, on page 59. It is a pretty form for any of these 
 puddings  or  blanc-manges, with
a   compote  of apples, peaches, plums, or
any other kind of fruit,  in the centre. 
 
 
  RICE JELLY. Mix enough 
 water  to two heaping tea-spoonfuls of  rice
flour  to make a thin paste; then add to it a coffee-cupful of 
 boiling water.  Sweeten to taste with 
 loaf-sugar.  Boil it until it is transparent. Flavor by
boiling with it a stick of  cinnamon  if the jelly is
intended for a patient with summer complaint; or add, instead, several drops of
 lemon-juice  if intended for a patient with fever. Mold
it.  
 Vanilla should never be used for flavoring any dish for an invalid.
Homeopathic books can never say enough about its poisonous effects on even
healthy and 
 robust  person. 
 
 
  RICE-WATER FOR DRINK is
made in the same way, in the proportion of a table-spoonful of  rice
flour  to a quart of  boiling water.  
 
 
  JELLY AND ICE ( for Fever Patients ). Break 
 ice  into small pieces about as large as a pea; mix
with it about the same quantity of  lemon jelly,  also
cut into little pieces. This is very refreshing. 
 
 
  PARCHED RICE. Parch 
 rice  to a nice brown, as you would coffee. Throw it
into a little   boiling  salted
water,  and boil it until it is thoroughly done. Do not stir it
more than necessary, on account of breaking the grains. Serve with 
 cream  and  sugar.  
 
 
  MILK PORRIDGE. Put a
dozen  raisins  into two cupfuls of 
 milk.  Bring it to a boil; then add a 
 heaping  tea-spoonful of 
 flour  rubbed to a paste with a little  cold
water  or  milk;  boil it three or four
minutes. The  raisins  may not be eaten, yet they give a
pleasant flavor to the  milk;  in fact, they may be
taken out if the dish is intended for a child. 
 For a change, the well-beaten  white of an egg  may
be stirred into this preparation 
 just after  it is taken from the fire, and, again,
the  raisins  may be left out, and the porridge simply
flavored with  salt  or 
 sugar, or  sugar  and 
 nutmeg.  
 
 
  BEEF SANDWICH. Scrape
very fine two or three table-spoonfuls of fresh, juicy, 
 tender,  uncooked 
 beef; season it slightly with 
 pepper  and  salt;  spread it
between two thin slices of  slightly buttered bread; 
cut it neatly into little diamonds about two and a half inches long and an inch
wide. 
  
 
  PREPARED FLOUR FOR SUMMER
COMPLAINTS ( Mrs. Horace
Mann ). 
 Tie up a pint of  flour  very tightly in a cloth, and
put it into  boiling water,  and let it boil three
hours. When untied, the gluten of the  flour  will be
found in a mass on the outside of the ball. Remove this, and the inside will
prove a dry powder which is very astringent. Grate this, and wet a portion of
it in  cold milk.  Boil a pint of 
 milk,  and when it is at the boiling-point stir in as
much of the wet mixture as will thicken it to the quality of palatable
porridge. Stir in a little  salt,  and let this be the
article of diet until the disease is removed. Relieve it at first by 
 toasted bread,  or a  mutton
broth,  which latter is also astringent. If the disease has not
progressed to the degree of inflammation, this diet will generally preclude all
need of medicine. 
  The author would also add, for a change of diet, well-boiled 
 rice  with a little  cream,  
 parched rice,   beef juice,  
 toasted water or milk crackers,  a little 
 tea  (avoiding generally too much liquid), and a little
 wild-cherry brandy;    or to Mrs.
Mann's flour porridge, when cooked, and just taken hot from the fire, the
well-beaten  white of an egg  might be added; and, after
stirring them well together, the preparation should be served
immediately.  
 
 
  MILK TOAST. 
 Toast  one or two thin slices of 
 bread  with the crust cut off; if there are two slices,
have them of equal size. When still hot, spread evenly over them a very little
fresh  butter,  and sprinkle over some 
 salt.  Now pour over a small tea-cupful of boiling 
 milk,  thickened with half a tea-spoonful of 
 flour,  and salted to taste. If the invalid can not
take  milk,  the  toast  may be
moistened with  boiling water.  Serve immediately. It is
a very appetizing dish, when fresh made and hot. 
 
 
  PANADA. Sprinkle a
little  salt  or  sugar  between
two large  Boston, soda, or Graham crackers,  or hard 
 pilot-biscuit;  put them into a bowl; pour over just
enough  boiling water  to soak them well;
  put the bowl into a vessel of 
 boiling water,  and let it remain fifteen or twenty
minutes, until the  crackers  are quite clear and like a
jelly, but not broken. Then lift them carefully, without breaking, into a hot
saucer. Sprinkle on more  sugar  or 
 salt  if desired: a few spoonfuls of sweet, thick 
 cream  poured over are a good addition for a change.
Never make more than enough for the patient at one time, as they are very
palatable when freshly made, and quite insipid if served cold. 
  Toasted bread  cut into thin even slices may be
served in the same way. This is also a good baby diet. 
 A panada may be made by adding an ounce of  grated
bread  or  rolled crackers  to half a pint
of  boiling water,  slightly salted, and allowing it to
boil three or four minutes. It may be sweetened, and flavored with 
 wine  or  nutmeg,  or both; or
the  sugar  and  nutmeg  may be
simply sprinkled over. 
 
 
  ASH-CAKE. Wet 
 corn-meal,  salted to taste, with enough 
 cold water  to make a soft dough, and let it stand half
an hour or longer; mold it into an oblong cake, about an inch and a half or two
inches thick. A clean spot should then be swept on the hot hearth, the bread
placed on it, and covered with hot  wood-ashes.  The
bread is thus steamed before it is baked. It should be done in a half to
three-quarters of an hour, and brushed and wiped before eaten. There is no
better food than this for dyspeptics inclined to acidity of the stomach, on
account of the alkaline properties of the ashes left in the crust. I
 n other extreme cases of  dyspepsia  where acids
are required, I have heard of cures being effected by the use of 
 buttermilk.   
 
 
  MILK PUNCH. Sweeten a
glass of  milk  to taste, and add one or two
table-spoonfuls of best  brandy.  Grate a little 
 nutmeg  over the top. 
 
 
  EGG-AND-MILK
PUNCH. Stir well a heaping tea-spoonful of 
 sugar,  and the  yolk of an
egg together in a  goblet,  then add a
table-spoonful of best  brandy.  Fill the glass with 
 milk  until it is three-quarters full,
  then stir well into the mixture the 
 white of the egg  beaten to a stiff froth. The receipt
for "Eggnog" among the "Beverages" is similar to this, and better, of course,
as  whipped cream  is substituted for milk. 
 
 
  HERB TEAS are made by
pouring  boiling water  over one or two tea-spoonfuls of
the  herbs,  then, after covering well the cup or bowl,
allowing it to steep for several minutes by the side of the fire. The tea is
sweetened to taste.   Camomile tea  is quite
invaluable for  nervousness and sleeplessness;   
  calamus tea,  for  infants'
colic;     cinnamon
tea, for  hemorrhages;    
 watermelon-seed tea,  for 
 strangury.   
  
  BONESET FOR A COUGH OR COLD  ( Mrs. General Simpson ). 
 Pour one and one-half pints of  boiling water  on a
ten-cent package of  boneset.  Let it steep at the side
of the fire for ten or fifteen minutes, when strain it. Sweeten it with two and
a half coffee-cupfuls of  loaf-sugar,  then add one
half-pint of  Jamaica rum;  bottle it. A child should
take a tea-spoonful before each meal; a grown person, a
sherry-glassful.   
  BOTANIC COUGH
SIRUP. This book is not a medical treatise, yet I can not resist the
temptation to add the following receipt, given me by Mrs. H----, of Buffalo.
Many cases of long and aggravated cough have been entirely cured by its use. If
the patient has a tendency to vertigo, the 
 bloodroot may be omitted from the receipt; but for pale
persons of weak vitality it will be found a valuable addition. 
 Ingredients:  Elecampane,  one ounce; 
 spikenard,  one ounce;  cumfrey
root,  one ounce;  bloodroot,  one ounce; 
 hoarhound tops,  one ounce. 
 Add two quarts of  water  to these 
 herbs,  and steep them five hours in a porcelain or new
tin vessel; add more  boiling water  as it boils away,
to keep the vessel as full as at first. At the end of this time, strain the
liquid, add one pound of  loaf-sugar,  and boil it until
it is reduced to one quart.  
  Dose. --A dessert-spoonful before each meal and
before retiring. It should be kept in a cool place; or a little 
 spirits  may be added to prevent its
spoiling.     ARRANGEMENT OF DISHES FOR
INVALIDS. 
 
  BEEFSTEAK. Cut out the
tender part of the  beef  from a 
 porter-house or a tenderloin steak.  The slice from
these  steaks,  if large, can be cut in two, as it is
sufficient for two meals for an invalid. Let it be three-quarters of an inch
thick; trim or press it into shape (it should be oval in form). Broil it
carefully over a hot fire, cooking it rare: the inside should be pink, not raw.
To cook it evenly without burning, turn it two or three times, but do not
pierce it with a fork nor squeeze it. It does not require over two minutes to
finish it. Do not put  pepper  and 
 salt  over it until it is cooked, as 
 salt  rubbed on fresh 
 meat contracts the fibres and toughens it. However, as
soon as it is cooked and placed on a little hot oval platter, sprinkle 
 salt  and pepper  over it; then,
placing a small piece of fresh  butter  on the top, set
it into the oven a minute to allow the  butter  to soak
into the  meat:  it only requires a small piece of 
 butter.   Beefsteak  swimming in
 butter  is unwholesome, and as slovenly as it is
wasteful. 
 If an invalid can eat  beefsteak,  he can generally
eat some one vegetable with it; and to make the little plump, tender morsel of 
 beef  look more tempting, garnish it with the
vegetable. If with  potatoes,  bake one or two
equal-sized  potatoes  to a turn. When quite hot, remove
the inside; mash it perfectly smooth, season it with 
 butter,  or, what is better, 
 cream  and  salt,  and press it
through a  colander.  It will look like vermicelli. Place
it in a circle around the  steak.  
 If with  pease,  when they are out of season, the 
 French canned pease  or the American brand of 
 "Triumph" pease  with be found almost as good. One can,
if kept well covered, should furnish three or four meals for an invalid. Merely
heat them, adding a little  salt  and 
 butter.  Do not use much, it any, of the juice in
making a circle of them around the  beef.  
 
 If you garnish with  tomatoes,  make them into a
sauce, as follows: After cooking and seasoning them with 
 salt  and  pepper,  turn off the
watery part, add a little  stock,  if you have it
(however, it is nice without it, if the word 
 stock frightens any body), and press it through the
sieve. Pour it around the  steak.  
 If with  Lima beans,  cook them as in receipt (see
page 201) with  parsley.   Lima
beans,  as well as  string-beans,  
 green corn,  and  onions, should
not be trusted, in severe cases of illness. A few 
 water-cresses  around a 
 steak would not be injurious to a convalescent. 
 
 
  MUTTON-CHOP. Scrape the
bone, and trim the  chop  into good shape; this adds
much to the appearance, and requires but little time for one chop. Rub a little
 butter  on both sides, and broil it carefully, having
it well done; season it as explained for beefsteak. It can be garnished in the
same way. 
 
 
  BREAST OF
CHICKEN. Choose a tender  chicken,  and cut out
the  breast;  season it, rub a little 
 butter  around it, and throw it on a fire of live coals
which is not too hot. Watch it constantly, turning it around to cook evenly on
all sides. If skillfully done, the surface will be very little charred, and the
inside  meat  will be more tender and juicy than if
cooked in any other way. Cut off such parts as may be much crisped. Season with
 butter,   pepper,  and 
 salt.  Form the  breast  into a 
 cutlet,  with the  leg,  as
described on page 175. Rub it with  butter,  and broil
it carefully on the  gridiron.  Garnish it with 
 rice  steamed with  rich
milk. It is especially nice with 
 tomato-sauce.  
 
 
  CHICKEN BOILED. The
second joint of a  leg of chicken  thrown into a little 
 salted boiling water,  or into 
 stock,  makes a delicious dish, with a 
 chicken-sauce  (see page 123) poured over it. I think
this second joint is more tender, and has more flavor, than the breast. 
 
 
  VENISON STEAK. A tender
cut from a  venison steak  should be broiled the
  same as a beefsteak. It is nice with 
 mashed potatoes (&#224; la neige),  or a 
 currant-jelly,  or a 
 tomato-sauce  around it. 
 
 
  TO PREPARE A BIRD. I
remember the effects of a  quail  so well, eaten when
very ill, that I have a decided disinclination to mention the word "bird" in
association with "invalid dishes" at all. But there is a difference in the
tenderness of birds, of course; and, then, a bird need not be swallowed whole,
if one should be ever so hungry. If a  bird  is to be
served, be sure that it is a tender one. Broil it carefully, or cook it whole
in this manner: Put it into a close-covered vessel holding a little 
 boiling water,  and place it over a very hot fire;
steam it for a few minutes; then brown it in the oven, basting it very
frequently. Serve a  tomato, currant-jelly, or wine
sauce  around it. 
    INVALID'S BILL OF
FARE.  (When a laxative diet is not
objectionable.)   BREAKFAST.  Oatmeal porridge. A poached
egg on toast.    DINNER
( at half-past twelve o'clock ).  Beefsteak and mashed baked potatoes; toasted Graham
crackers.   Dessert: Sea-moss blanc-mange.    TEA.  Boston
brown-bread cut into slices, with cream poured over.  A baked apple.    BREAKFAST.  Hominy grits; a mutton-chop,
with tomato-sauce.    DINNER.  A chicken broth, quite thick
with rice, and some pieces of chicken in it.  Wafers.   Dessert:  A raw egg, arrange as in receipt on page 322,
with sherry wine.    TEA.  Milk-toast.  
   BREAKFAST.  Oatmeal porridge. The second
joint of a leg of chicken cooked on the coals and served with pease around
it.    DINNER.  Beef
broth, thick with tapioca. Graham wafers.   Dessert:  Boiled parched rice, with
cream.    TEA.  Corn-meal mush, with cream and
sugar.     PREPARED FOODS FOR INVALIDS, ETC. 
 I am indebted to  Dr. Franklin, of St. Louis,  for
this little chapter. Appreciating his experience in the uses of prepared foods
for invalids, I asked his advice about certain ones, when he kindly sent me a
written opinion, which I insert 
 verbatim.  Dr. Franklin says: 
 "In the dietetic treatment of the sick, notwithstanding that
well-meaning and unwise friends often injure their patients by solicitations to
take more food, it is often one of the great difficulties to induce the invalid
to partake sufficiently of what is suitable, remembering that the body is
nourished by the assimilation of the food, and that the assimilating power is
weak, and can not be overtaxed. But the desire of food, and, indeed, the
assimilation, depend in a considerable degree on the manner in which it is
presented. It should not only please the eye and gratify the palate, but should
be varied in kind and method of preparation. 
 
 " Liebig's Extract of
Meat  is an economical and valuable preparation. It is valuable in
nearly all cases of   physical  debility and
extreme emaciation, especially after profuse losses of blood in collapse from
wounds; for patients suffering from severe and prolonged fevers in the last
stage of consumption; in bad cases of indigestion, when the stomach rejects all
solid food; and as an article of diet for nursing-mothers, etc.  
  "In cases of  extreme
exhaustion,  the  extract  may be mixed with 
 wine.  As it is stimulating, it may take the place of
tea and coffee, and will be less liable than they to produce derangement of the
digestive organs. An advantage with this extract is that it can be readily
prepared.  
 
 " Valentine's Extract of
Meat. --This is one of the best articles of the kind for the
sick-chamber, and is not only simple of preparation, but is the most nutritive
of all the beef essences. As a medicinal agent, it will
  be found of great value to the sick, and for
persons (children as well) with weak constitutions. *  
 "These beverages, in common with any nutritive soups, offer
to the patient whose general bodily functions are more or less suspended a
fluid and assimilable form of food. It is to this adaptation of nourishment to
the condition of the body that we must, in part at least, ascribe their
beneficial results. They have a remarkable power of restoring the vigorous
action of the heart, and dissipating the sense of exhaustion following severe,
prolonged exertion, and may be recommended in preference to the glass of wine
which some take after watching, preaching, prolonged mental effort, etc. 
 "Rice (whole or ground), barley, etc., may often be
advantageously added to thicken beef tea. 
 " Gillon's Essence of Chicken. --A
similar preparation may be more readily made by using this essence of chicken,
which may be procured from any homeopathic chemist. This simply requires
diluting with hot water in the proportion stated upon each tin case. 
 " Oatmeal Porridge. --When properly
made, this is both wholesome and nutritious, and especially suitable when a
patient does not suffer from water-brash, acidity, or from any form of bowel
irritation. It has long been the staple food of the Scotch, and produces good
muscular fibre and strong bone. It is a very nourishing diet for growing
children. The common oatmeal is not equal to the Scotch oatmeal; however, it is
not always easy to obtain the latter. 
 
 " Pearl Barley  forms an
excellent meal. It should be boiled for four hours, so tied in a cloth that
room is left for the grain to swell. Only so much 
 water  should be added from time to time as to feed the
 barley  and supply the waste of evaporation, lest the
strength of the  barley  should be boiled out. It may be
served with  milk,  or (if the patient can digest them)
with  preserves,   jelly,  or 
 butter.  
 
 
 " Macaroni-pudding. --Three
ounces of  macaroni  should be soaked for forty minutes
in  cold water,  then added to a pint of boiling 
 milk.  This should be stirred occasionally, while it
simmers for half an hour; two  eggs  are then added,
beaten with a dessert-spoonful of  sugar;  also, if
desired, a flavoring of  lemon.  This may then be baked
in a  pie-dish  for twenty minutes. 
  "  Vermicelli   may be used instead of
 macaroni,  but requires only twenty minutes'
soaking.  
  The following note appears at the bottom of page 332 in the
original text. 
 *Dr. Franklin admits that Valentine's extract is
more nutritive than that of Liebig. I have heard other physicians say that they
considered the Valentine much preferable to the Liebig extract, abandoning the
use of the latter for the former.--ED. 
 
 "Part of a loaf of  stale
bread, boiled, and served with  butter  and 
 salt,   or with preserves,
affords a change of wholesome food.  Bread-pudding  made with 
 eggs  and  milk,  either boiled
or baked, may be used, made according to the receipt used at Westminster
Hospital, viz.:  Bread,  one-quarter of a pound; 
 milk,  one-quarter of a pint; 
 sugar,  one-quart of an ounce; 
 flour,  one-quarter of an ounce; one 
 egg  for every two pounds.  A pudding may be
made in the same way of stale sponge-cake or rusks, to diversify the
diet.  
 
 " Neave's Food. --Many years'
experience in the use of Neave's Farinaceous Food justifies the recommendation
of it as an excellent article of diet for infants, invalids, and persons of
feeble digestion. Competent chemical analysts have found the preparation to
contain every constituent necessary for the nourishment of the body, and this
has been abundantly confirmed by what we have frequently observed as the result
of its use. For infants it should be prepared according to the direction
supplied with the food, taking care not to make it too thick; it also makes a
very agreeable and highly nutritious gruel. 
 "One precaution is necessary: Neave's food should be obtained
fresh and in good condition; if exposed too long, it deteriorates. Under
favorable circumstances it keeps good for from six to twelve months. It may
generally be procured in good condition from the leading homeopathic
druggists. 
 "Ridge's, Hard's, and other farinaceous foods have their
advantages, and are preferred by some patients. 
 "Those foods that are pure starch, as 'corn flour,' so
called, and all those which thicken in like manner, contain but a small
proportion of nutriment, being less sustaining and also more difficult of
digestion than ordinary stale bread. They are very unsuitable for young infants
and children suffering from diarrhea, indigestion, constipation, flatulence,
atrophy, or aphth&#230;. 
 "In all cases, food which contains traces of bran, and also
gluten, gum, sugar, cellulose, and saline matter, especially the phosphates, in
proportion to the starch, are to be preferred. I prefer the Ridge's food for
nursing infants, but either may be used according to adaptability. 
 " Sugar of Milk. --A preparation of
cow's milk and sugar of milk forms a still lighter food, and one which, in the
case of very young infants, should be used to the exclusion of farinaceous
food. Cow's milk may be assimilated to human milk by dilution with water and
the addition of sugar of milk. Cow's milk contains more oil (cream) and
caseine, or cheese matter, but less sugar, than woman's. When necessary to
bring up a child by hand from birth, sugar of milk is more suitable to begin
with. 
 
 "  Formula:   One ounce of  sugar
of milk  should be dissolved in three-quarters of a pint of 
 boiling water,  and mixed as required with an equal
quantity of fresh  cow's milk.  The infant should be fed
with this from the feeding-bottle in the usual way. Care must be taken to keep
the bottle, etc., perfectly clean. 
  
 " Alkershrepta  (Chocolate).--One of
the most delicate and nutritious beverages is made from this preparation of the
cocoa. It is prepared from the best cocoa-bean, the highly nutritious natural
oil of which is not extracted, as in the ordinary soluble chocolates, but so
neutralized as not to derange the stomach of the most delicate. Its nutritious
and mildly stimulating qualities, its purity, and the facility with which it is
prepared for use-- not  requiring to be
boiled--recommend it as an excellent substitute for tea and coffee. Directions
for its preparation accompany each package. 
 " Delacre's Extract of Meat
Chocolate. --This agreeable article combines in one preparation, and
under a most agreeable form, a large proportion of tonic and nutritive
principles. It contains both the properties of chocolate and beef. It is a
useful tonic and nutritive agent for invalids and convalescents, and for
persons of delicate constitutions. It contains three per cent. of La Plata
Extract of Meat, and every square represents the nutritive constituents of one
and a quarter ounces of beef. It is employed as ordinary chocolate. Full
directions accompany each box. 
 " Welluc's Biscotine. --A most
excellent, healthy, and invigorating food for infants and invalids. It is
prepared from sweetened bread and other nutritious substances, reduced to a
fine powder, so as to render them easily soluble in water or milk. As an
article of common diet for infants, particularly those suffering from delicate
constitutions or with looseness of the bowels, it will be found to give health
and strength with more certainty than the 
 crude  substances now in use, and not, like them,
liable to sour on the stomach."     SOME DISHES FOR
"BABY." 
 No particular diet can be recommended for the infant that is so unfortunate
as to be deprived of its natural nourishment. What agrees with one is quite
unsuccessful with another. Different kinds of diet can only be tested.
Children's little illnesses are often the result of food which, in their case,
is unassimilating and indigestible; and it is often better to attempt a change
of food than to resort to medicines. 
 City babies generally thrive poorly with cow's milk. Some can stand it,
however, diluting it with a third water, adding a slight thickening of rice,
well boiled and mashed, and also a little sugar. Others thrive well on goat's
milk, when no other kind will answer. The Borden condensed milk serves like a
charm with very young infants in cold weather; but in warm
  weather its excessive sweetness seems to cause
acidification when taken. In New York, where it may be obtained fresh, without
sweetening, I have heard that it is more satisfactory. 
 Some babies are ruddy and strong with an oatmeal diet (oatmeal porridge
strained and mixed with the milk). I have already mentioned this as especially
successful in Ireland and Scotland. However, in the warm climate of many of our
cities in summer I have known the oatmeal diet to cause eruptions or boils. It
is almost a crime to undertake to bring up children artificially in warm summer
climates. Many a heart-ache is caused when, failing to supply the natural food,
nothing would seem to agree with the baby. 
 
  PAP. Put a little 
 butter  into a saucepan for the purpose of keeping the
mixture from sticking. When it is hot, pour in a thin batter of 
 milk  and  flour,  a little
salted; stir well, and boil gently about five minutes; then add a little 
 sugar.  If the child is over three months old, an 
 egg  may be mixed in the batter for a change. 
 
 
  WHEAT-FLOUR AND CORN-MEAL
GRUEL. Tie  wheat flour  and  corn
meal  (three-quarters  wheat flour  and
one-quarter  corn meal ) into a thick cotton cloth, and
boil it three or four hours. Dry the lump, and grate it as you use it. Put on
the fire  cream  and  water  (one
part  cream  to six parts 
 water ), and when it comes to a boil, stir in some of
the grated lump, rubbed to a smooth paste with a little 
 water.   Salt  it slightly.
Judgment must be used as to the amount of thickening. For a young infant, the
preparation should be thin enough to be taken in the bottle; if the child is
older, it may be thicker. If the child is troubled with constipation, the
proportion of  corn meal  should be larger; if with
summer complaint, it may be left out altogether. 
 
 
  ROASTED RICE boiled and
mashed is a good infant diet in case of summer complaint. 
  
 
  CORN-MEAL GRUEL is
undoubtedly the best relaxing diet for infants, and may be used instead of
medicine. 
   FOOD FOR INFANTS WITH WEAK DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 
 
  OATMEAL GRUEL  ( Dr. Rice, of Colorado ), No. 1. 
 Add one tea-cupful of  oatmeal  to two quarts of 
 boiling water,  slightly, salted; let this cook for two
hours and a half, then strain, it through a sieve. When cold, add to one gill
of the gruel one gill of thin  cream  and one
tea-spoonful of  sugar.  To this quantity add one pint
of  boiling water,  and it is ready for use. 
 
 
  BEEF  ( Dr.
Rice ), No. 2. 
 Scrape one-half pound of  beef,  and remove all the
shreds; add one-half pint of  water,  and three drops of
 muriatic acid.  Let it stand one hour; then strain it
through a sieve, and add a small portion of  salt.  
     HOW TO SERVE FRUITS. 
 THE French deserve much praise for their taste in arranging fruits for the
table. They almost invariably serve them with leaves, even resorting to
artificial ones in winter. 
 In the following arrangements, I have some of their dainty dishes in
mind. 
 
  STRAWBERRIES. The
French serve large fine  strawberries  without being
hulled.  Pulverized sugar  is passed, the 
 strawberry  is taken by the thumb and finger by the
hull, dipped into the  sugar,  and eaten. The 
 Wilson strawberry,  however, which seems to be our
principal market  strawberry,  certainly requires
stemming, and deluging with  sugar  before serving. 
  
 
  MIXED
FRUITS.   A variety of fruits and leaves
decoratively arranged in a raised bowl.  Always
choose a raised dish for fruits. Arrange part of the clusters of 
 grapes  to fall gracefully over the edge of the dish.
Mix any kind of pretty  green leaves  or 
 vines,  which may also fall, and wind around the stem
of the dish. Although the colors of the fruits should blend harmoniously, and
the general appearance should be fresh and n&#233;glig&#233;, arrange them
firmly, so that when the dish is moved there will be no danger of an
avalanche. 
 
 
  WATER-MELONS. A 
 water-melon  should be thoroughly chilled; it should
be  Two watermelon halves decoratively cut and
garnished with leaves, served on a round
platter.  kept on the 
 ice until about to be served. It may be simply cut in
two, with a slice cut from the convex ends, to enable the halves to stand
firmly on the platter. When thus cut, the pulp is scooped out in egg-shaped
pieces with a table-spoon and served; or it may be cut as shown in figure, when
slices with the rind attached may served. 
 
 
  CANTALOUPE
MELONS.   A cantaloupe cut into wedges and
served on a round plate.  Put it into the
refrigerator until just before serving, to become thoroughly chilled; cut it as
in figure here given, removing the seeds. Arrange four or five 
 grape leaves  on a platter, upon which place the 
 melon.  
  
 
  CURRANTS.   An
illustration of currants served in a raised
bowl.  Serve  currants  in
rows of red and white, with a border of  leaves  around
the outside, as shown in annexed cut. 
 
 
  CURRANTS OR OTHER FRUITS
ICED. Beat the  white of an egg  barely enough
to break it. Dip in selected bunches of fine 
 currants, and while moist roll them in 
 pulverized sugar.  Place them on a sieve to dry. This
makes a refreshing breakfast dish. 
  Plums,   cherries,  
 grapes,  or any other  fruit may
be iced in the same way. 
   HOW THEY EAT
ORANGES IN HAVANA. 
 A fork is pierced partly through the centre of an orange, entering it from
the stem side; the fork serves for a handle, which is held in the left hand,
while with a sharp knife the peel and thin skin are cut off in strips from the
top of the orange to the fork handle; now, holding it in the right hand, the
orange can be eaten, leaving all the fibrous pulp on the fork.  
 
  FRESH PEACHES. Choose
large, fresh, ripe, and juicy  peaches;  pare, and cut
them into two or three pieces. They should be large, luscious-looking pieces,
not little chipped affairs. Sprinkle over  granulated
sugar,  put them into the freezer, and half freeze them; this will
require about an hour, as they are more difficult to freeze than cream. Do not
take them from the freezer until the moment of serving, when sprinkle over a
little more  sugar.  Serve in a glass dish.  
  Canned
peaches   may be treated in the same manner.  
 
 
  PINE-APPLES. When 
 pine-apples  are picked and eaten fresh in their own
climate, they seem to dissolve in the mouth, and the fibrous
   A raised bowl
containing diced pineapple, garnished with cake slices and the top of the
pineapple.  texture is hardly perceived. Not so at
our tables. Here I have sometimes partly resolved that they are not much of a
luxury after all, especially when the slices are so tough as to require the
knife and fork. They are better cut into dice, saturated with 
 sugar,  and piled in the centre of a glass dish, with a
row 
 &#224; la Charlotte  of 
 sponge-cake  slices, or of 
 ladies'-fingers  around the sides. 
    BEVERAGES. 
 
  PUNCH  ( Mrs.
Williams ). 
 RUB  loaf-sugar  over the  peels of six
lemons  to break the little vessels and absorb the ambrosial oil of
the  lemons.  Then squeeze out all the 
 juice  possible from six 
 oranges  and six 
 lemons, removing the seeds; add to it five pounds of 
 loaf-sugar  (including the 
 sugar  rubbed over the peels) and two quarts of 
 water,  with five  cloves  and
two blades of  mace  (in a bag); simmer this over the
stove about ten minutes, making a sirup. 
 This sirup will keep forever. It should be bottled and kept to 
 sweeten  the liquors, whenever punch is to be
made. 
 Mix then one pint of  green tea,  a scant pint of 
 brandy,  one quart of  Jamaica
rum,  one quart of  Champagne,  and one
tea-cupful of  Chartreuse.  When well mixed, sweeten it
to taste with the sirup; pour it into the punch-bowl, in which is placed an
eight or ten pound piece of  ice.  Slice three 
 oranges  and three 
 lemons, removing the seeds, which put also into the
punch-bowl. 
 
 
  MILK PUNCH  ( Mrs. Filley ). 
 Ingredients: Four quarts of  Jamaica rum,  three
quarts of  water,  five pints of boiling 
 milk,  three pounds of 
 loaf-sugar,  twenty-four 
 lemons,  two  nutmegs.  
 Cut thin slices, or only the yellow part of the  rinds of the
twenty-four lemons.  Let these thin parings and the two grated
   nutmegs  infuse for
twenty-four hours in one quart of the  rum.  It should
be put in a warm place. 
 At the end of the twenty-four hours, add to the  juice of the
twenty-four lemons  (freed from seeds) the 
 water,   sugar,  
 rum,  and also the 
 rum containing the  lemon-peel 
and  nutmeg.  Put all into a large vessel. When the 
 sugar  is dissolved, add the five pints of boiling 
 milk  while the mixture is being stirred all the time.
It will curdle, of course. Then cover it, and let it stand still one hour, when
filter it through a bag, until it is as clear and bright as a crystal. It may
take three or four hours. Pale  rum  should be used.
This quantity will make enough to fill about one dozen quart bottles. Cork them
well, and keep them standing. It may be used at once, but it will not be in
perfection until it is a year or two old. It will keep forever. The bag may be
made three-cornered with a yard square of rather coarse Canton flannel. 
 This punch is nice to serve with mock-turtle soup, or it may be used for
making Roman punch. Like sherry, it is a convenient beverage to offer, with
cake, to a lady friend at any time. 
 
 
  ROMAN PUNCH. Make or
purchase  lemon ice.  Just before serving, put enough
for one person at table into a saucer or  punch-glass, and
pour over two table-spoonfuls of the  milk punch, made
as in the last receipt. A course of Roman punch is often served at dinner
parties just after the roast. There is no better, cheaper, or easier way of
preparing it than this. 
 
 
  CLARET PUNCH. Cut up
the  yellow part of one lemon,  and let it soak for
three or four hours in half of a quart bottle of 
 claret;  add then the other half of the 
 wine.  Sweeten to taste, and add one bottle of 
 soda.  Put a  clove  into each
glass before pouring out the punch. 
 
 
  EGGNOG. Ingredients:
Six  eggs,  half a pound of 
 sugar,  half a pint of 
 brandy or  whiskey,  three pints
of  cream  whipped to a froth. 
 Beat the  yolks of the eggs  and the 
 sugar  together until it is
  a froth; add the 
 brandy or  whisky,  next the 
 whites of the eggs  beaten to a stiff froth, and then
the  whipped cream.  
 
 
  SHERRY, CLARET, OR CATAWBA
COBBLERS. Put four or five table-spoonfuls of the 
 wine  into a glass with half a table-spoonful of 
 sugar;  one or two thin slices of 
 orange  or  lemon  may be added.
Fill the glass with finely chopped  ice.  Now pour this
from one glass to another once or twice, to mix well. Put then two or three 
 strawberries,  or a little of any of the 
 fruit  of the season, for a garnish. The beverage can
not be completed without the addition of two straws. 
 
 
  LEMONADE. Rub 
 loaf-sugar  over the  peels of the
lemons  to absorb the oil; add to the 
 lemon-juice  the  sugar  to
taste. Two  lemons  will make three glassfuls of
lemonade, the remainder of the ingredients being 
 water and plenty of  ice 
chopped fine. 
 
 
  TOM AND
JERRY. Ingredients: Four  eggs  and six large
spoonfuls of  powdered sugar  beaten together very light
(a perfect froth), six small wine-glassfuls of  rum, and
one pint of  boiling water.  
 Stir the  water  into the mixture, and then turn it
back and forth into two pitchers, the pitchers being hot, and the glasses also
hot. Grate  nutmeg  on the top of each glass, and drink
immediately. 
 
 
  MINT-JULEP. Bruise
several tender sprigs of fresh  mint  in a tea-spoonful
of  sugar  dissolved in a few table-spoonfuls of 
 water.  Fill the glass to one-third with 
 brandy,   claret,  
 sherry,  or any  wine preferred,
and the rest with finely pounded  ice. Insert some
sprigs of  mint  with the stems downward, so that the
leaves above are in the shape of a bouquet. Drink through a straw. 
 
 MILK PUNCH AND EGG-AND-MILK PUNCH (see page 326). 
 
  BLACKBERRY
CORDIAL. Ingredients: Two quarts of  blackberry
juice,  two pounds of  
 loaf-sugar,  half an ounce of powdered 
 cinnamon,  half an ounce of powdered 
 allspice,  half an ounce of powdered 
 nutmeg,  quarter of an ounce of powdered 
 cloves.  
 Boil it all together two hours. Add, while hot, one pint of fourth-proof
pure  French brandy.  Bottle it. 
 
 
  CURRANT WINE. To two
quarts of the  currant-juice  (after the 
 currants  are pressed) add one quart of 
 water  and three and a half pounds of 
 sugar.  Let it stand in an open jar until it stops
fermenting; then draw it off carefully, bottle, and cork it securely. 
 
 
  RASPBERRY VINEGAR  ( Miss Nellie Walworth ). 
 Pour one quart of  vinegar  over three quarts of ripe
 black raspberries  in a china vessel. Let it stand
twenty-four hours, then strain it. Pour the liquor over three quarts of fresh 
 raspberries,  and let it infuse again for a day and
night; strain again, and add one pound of  white
sugar to each pint of  juice.  Boil twenty
minutes, skimming it well. Bottle when cold. When it is to be drunk, add one
part of the  raspberry vinegar  to four parts of 
 ice water.  
    SUITABLE
COMBINATION OF DISHES. 
 THERE are dishes which seem especially adapted to be served together. This
should be a matter of some study. Of course, very few would serve cheese with
fish, yet general combinations are often very carelessly
considered.   SOUP. 
 Soup is generally served alone; however, pickles and crackers are a pleasant
accompaniment for oyster-soup, and many serve grated cheese with macaroni and
vermicelli soups. A pea or bean soup (without bread 
 croutons ) at one end of the table, with a neat
square piece of boiled pork on a platter at the other end, is sometimes seen.
When a ladleful of the soup is put in the  soup-plate  by
the hostess, the butler passes it to the host, who cuts off a thin wafer-slice
of the pork, and places  it in the soup. The thin
pork can be cut with the spoon. Hot boiled rice is served with gumbo soup.
Well-boiled rice, with each grain distinct, is served in a dish by the side of
the  soup-tureen.  The hostess first puts a ladleful of
soup into the  soup-plate,  then a spoonful of the rice in
the centre. This is much better than cooking the rice with the soup. 
 Sometimes little squares (two inches square) of thin slices of brown bread
(buttered) are served with soup at handsome dinners. It is a French custom.
Cold slaw may be served at the same time with soup, and eaten with the soup or
just after the  soup-plates  are
removed.    FISH. 
 The only vegetable to be served with fish is the plain boiled potato. It may
be cut into little round balls an inch in diameter, and served in little piles
as a garnish around the fish, or it may be the flaky, full-sized potato, served
in another dish. Some stuff a fish with seasoned mashed potatoes, then serve
around it little cakes of mashed potatoes, rolled in egg and bread-crumbs and
fried. Cucumbers, and sometimes noodles, are served with
fish.    BEEF. 
 Almost any vegetable may be served with beef. If potato is not served with
fish, it generally accompanies the beef, either as a bed of smooth mashed
potatoes around the beef, or 
 &#224; la neige,  or as fried potato-balls ( &#224; la Parisienne ), or, in fact, cooked in any of the
myriad different ways. At dinner companies, beef is generally served with a
mushroom-sauce. However, as any and all vegetables are suitable for beef, it is
only a matter of convenience which to choose. Horse-radish is a favorite beef
accompaniment.    CORNED BEEF 
 should be served with carrots, turnips, parsnips, cabbage, or pickles around
it.    TURKEYS. 
 Cranberry-sauce, or some acid jelly, such as currant or plum
  jelly, should be served with turkey. Many
garnish a turkey with sausages made of pork or beef. Any vegetable may be
served with a turkey; perhaps onions, cold slaw, turnips, tomatoes, and
potatoes are the ones oftenest selected.    CHICKENS. 
 Fried chickens with cream dressing are good served with cauliflower on the
same dish, with the same sauce poured over both. A boiled chicken is generally
served in a bed of boiled rice. A row of baked tomatoes is a pretty garnish
around a roast chicken. It is fashionable to serve salads with
chickens.    LAMB 
 is especially nice served with green pease or with spinach; cauliflowers and
asparagus are also favorite accompaniments.    PORK. 
 The unquestionable combination for pork is fried apples, apple-sauce,
sweet-potatoes, tomatoes, or Irish potatoes. Pork sausages should invariably be
served with apple-sauce or fried apples. Thin slices of breakfast bacon make a
savory garnish for beefsteak. Thin slices of pork, egged and bread-crumbed,
fried, and placed on slices of fried mush, make a nice breakfast dish; or it
may garnish fried chickens, beefsteak, or breaded chops.    MUTTON. 
 The same vegetables mentioned as suitable for lamb are appropriate for
mutton. The English often serve salad with mutton.    VEAL. 
 Any vegetable may be served as well with veal as with beef. I would select,
however, tomatoes, parsnips, or oyster-plant.    ROAST GOOSE, 
 apple-sauce, and turnips especially.    GAME. 
 Game should invariably be served with an acid jelly, such as
  a currant or a plum jelly. Saratoga potatoes 
 &#224; la Parisienne,  spinach, tomatoes, and
salads, are especially suitable for game.    CHEESE 
 is served just before the dessert. It is English to serve celery or
cucumbers with it. Thin milk crackers or wafer biscuits (put into the oven just
a moment before serving, to make them crisp) should be served with cheese;
butter also for spreading the crackers, this being the only time this it is
usually allowed for dinner. Macaroni with cheese, Welsh rare-bits, cheese
omelets, or little cheese-cakes, are good substitutes for a cheese
course.    SWEET-BREADS. 
 Sweet-breads and pease--this is the combination seen at almost every dinner
company. They are as nice, however, with tomatoes, cauliflowers, macaroni mixed
with tomato-sauce or cheese, or with asparagus or
succotash.    ROMAN PUNCH 
 is generally served as a course just after the beef. It is a refreshing
arrangement, preparing one for the game which comes after. In England, punch is
served with soup, especially with turtle or mock-turtle. One often sees Roman
punch served as a first course just before the soup.    CATALOUPE MELONS 
 are served just after the soup at dinner. This is especially French;
however, this melon is more of a breakfast than a dinner dish. the water-melon
is served the same time as fruit at dinner.     SERVING OF WINES. 
 At dinners of great pretension, from eight to twelve different kinds of
wines are sometimes served. This is rather ostentatious than elegant. In my
judgment, neither elegance nor good taste is displayed in such excess. Four
different kinds of wine are quite enough for the grandest occasions imaginable,
if  they are only of the choicest selection.
Indeed, for most occasions, a single wine--a choice claret or Champagne--is
quite sufficient. In fact, let no one hesitate about giving dinners without any
wine at all. Proper respect for conscientious scruples about serving wine would
forbid a criticism as to the propriety of serving any dinner without it. Such
dinners are in quite as good taste, and will be just as well appreciated by
sensible people; and it make very little difference whether people 
 who are not sensible  are pleased or not. 
 If three wines are served, let them be a choice sherry with the soup, claret
with the first course after the fish, and Champagne with the roast. If a fourth
is desired, there is no better selection than a Ch&#226;teau Yquem, to be
served with an 
 entr&#233;e.  If Champagne alone is used, serve it
just after the fish. Many serve claret during the entire dinner, it matters not
how many other varieties may be served; others do the same with Champagne--for
the benefit of the ladies, they say. I believe, however, Champagne is
considered with more disfavor every day. In England, punch is served with
turtle or mock-turtle soup. A receipt may be found for one of their best
punches (see page 339). I consider it, however, a decided mistake to serve so
strong a beverage, especially at the beginning of a dinner. A fine ale is often
served with the cheese-and-cracker course at family dinners, when wine is not
served. 
 As a rule, I would say that the white wines, Sauterne, Rhine, etc., are
served with raw oysters, or just before the soup; sherry or Madeira, with the
soup or fish; Champagne, with the meat; claret, or any other of the red wines,
with the game. Many prefer claret just after the fish, as it is a light wine,
and can be drunk instead of water. If still another wine is added for the
dessert, it is some superior sherry, port, Burgundy, or any fine wine. Very
small glasses of 
 liqueurs,  such as maraschino and cura&#231;oa, are
sometimes served at the end of a dinner after coffee. 
 In France, coffee ( caf&#233; noir ) is served
after the fruit at dinner, a plan which should be generally followed at dinner
parties at least. It is always well to serve cream and sugar with coffee, as
many prefer it.    PROPER TEMPERATURE IN WHICH WINES SHOULD
BE SERVED. 
 Sherry should be served thoroughly chilled. 
 Madeira should be neither warm nor cold, but of about the same temperature
as the room. 
 Claret should be served at the same temperature as Madeira, never with ice;
it should remain about forty-eight hours standing, then decanted, care being
observed that no sediment enter the  decanter.  
 Champagne should either be kept on ice for several hours previous to
serving, or it should be half frozen; it is then called 
 Champagne frapp&#233;.  It is frozen with some
difficulty. The ice should be pounded quite fine, then an 
 equal  amount of salt mixed with it. A quart bottle
of Champagne well surrounded by this mixture should be frozen in two hours, or,
rather, frozen to the degree when it may be poured from the
bottle.    TREATMENT OF WINES. 
 Connoisseurs on the subject of wine say much depends upon its treatment
before it is served; that it is invariably much impaired in flavor through
ignorance of proper treatment in the cellar; and that a wine of ordinary grade
will be more palatable than one of better quality less carefully managed. They
say wine should never be allowed to remain in case, but unpacked, and laid on
its side. Above all, wine should be stored where it is least exposed to the
changes of temperature. 
 All red wines should be kept dry and warm, especially clarets, which are
more easily injured by cold than by heat. Consequently, on account of the rigor
of our winters, clarets are better stored in a closet on the second floor (not
too near a register) than in a cellar. Champagnes and Rhine wines stand cold
better than heat, which frequently causes fermentation. The warmer sherry,
Madeira, and all spirits are kept, the better.    CHOICE OF BRANDS 
 Champagne.--Perhaps the choicest brands of Champagne are Pomm&#233;ry
(dry, supposed to mean less sweet), Giesler (sweet), Veuve Cliquot (sweet), and
Roederer (sweet). The  best of the cheaper
Champagnes are Charles Roederer, Heidsick, Montebello, and Krug. 
  Claret. --Choicest brands: Ch&#226;teaux La Rose,
Ch&#226;teau la Tour, Ch&#226;teau Lafitte, or Ch&#226;teau Margeaux. Best
cheaper brand, St. Julien. 
  Sauterne. --Best: Ch&#226;teau Yquem, La Tour
Blanche. Best cheaper, Haut-Sauterne. 
  Burgundy. --Best brands: Clos Vougeot, Chambertin,
Chablis, and Red Hermitage. 
  Sherry. --Best brand, Amontillado. 
  Hock. --Best brands: Steinberg Cabinet and
Marcobrunner. Best sparkling wine, Hochheimer. 
 The American dry wines are most excellent, and might be more patronized by
those who know no other wine than that of foreign manufacture. The Missouri
Catawba and Concord wines are especially good; so are some of the California
wines. The Ohio Catawba is quite noted.    BILL-OF-FARE TABLE. 
 Bills of fare can be easily made by selecting more or less dishes, and
serving them in the order indicated in the table. The dishes are to be
garnished as explained in receipts.   1st
Course.--Raw oysters, little clams, Roman punch.  2d Course.--Soup
(potages): any kind of soup or soups.  3d
Course.--Hors-d'&#x0153;uvers (cold): sardines, pickled oysters, cucumbers,
radishes, preserved herrings, anchovies, cold slaw. These dishes are considered
as appetizers, and are served just after the soup. It is a French custom.
Melons are served as a course after soup also.  4th Course.--Fish
(poissons): any kind of fish or shell-fish.  5th
Course.--Hors-d'&#x0153;uvers (hot). The hot hors-d'&#x0153;uvers are the light
entr&#233;es, such as croquettes, all kinds of hot vols-au-vent, or patties
(not sweet ones, however), sweet-breads, brains, etc.  6th
Course.--Relev&#233;s: the relev&#233;s or removes, are the substantial
dishes. Roast joints, 
 i.e.,  of beef, veal, lamb, mutton, or venison, roast
or boiled turkeys or chickens, fillet of beef, braised meats, ham, sometimes
game.  7th Course.--Roman punch.  8th
Course.--Entr&#233;es: cutlets, all kinds of vols-au-vent, or patties (not
sweet); sweet-breads, fricassees, scollops, casseroles, poultry or game on
coquille, croquettes, salmis, blanquettes; any of the meats, or game made into
side-dishes.   9th
Course.--Entrem&#234;ts: dressed vegetables served alone, such as cauliflower,
asparagus, artichokes, corn, spinach, boiled celery, string-beans ( haricots verts ), or French pease on toast, etc., macaroni,
dressed eggs, fritters.  10th Course.--R&#244;tis: game of any
kind.  11th Course.--Salade: any kind of salad; a plain salad is
often served with the game.  12th Course.--Cheese, macaroni dressed
with cheese, cheese omelet, cheese-cakes; cheese and salad are often served
together.  13th Course.--Entrem&#234;ts, sweet: any kind of
pudding, jellies, sweet fritters, sweet pastries, creams, charlottes,
etc.  14th Course.--Glaces: any thing iced; ice-creams, water ices,
frozen puddings, biscuits glac&#233;s, etc.  15th
Course.--Dessert: fruits, nuts and raisins, candied fruits, bonbons, cakes,
etc.  16th Course.--Coffee, and little cakes, or biscuits
(crackers).      TO PREPARE COMPANY
DINNERS. 
 IT is very simple to prepare a dinner served 
 &#224; la Russe,  as it matters little how many
courses there may be. If it were necessary to prepare many dishes, and to have
them all hot, and in perfection at the same minute, and then be obliged to
serve them nearly all together, the task might be considered rather formidable
and confusing. But with one or two assistants, and with time between each
course to prepare the succeeding one, after a very little practice it becomes a
mere amusement. 
 The soup, or the stock for the soup, and the dessert, should be made the day
before the dinner. 
 A bill of fare should be written, and pinned up in the kitchen. Every thing
should be prepared that is possible in the early part of the day; then, after
the fish, chickens, birds, etc., are dressed and larded (if necessary), they
should be put aside, near the ice. If sweet-breads are to be served, they
should be larded, parboiled, and put away also. The salad (if lettuce) should
be sprinkled with water (not placed 
 in  water), and put in a cool, dark place in a
basket, not to be touched until the last three minutes. 
 
 The plates and platters for each course should be counted, examined, and
placed on a table by themselves. However, the arrangement of the dishes was
explained in the chapter on setting the table. 
 After this, the kitchen should be put in order, and the tables cleared of
all unnecessary things. Then every thing needed for the courses to be cooked
should be placed in separate groups at the back of a large table, so that there
may be no confusion or loss of any thing at the last minute. If there are
sweet-breads, have them egged and bread-crumbed; if pease are to be served with
them, place them in a basin at their side, properly seasoned. If there is
macaroni with cheese, have the proper quantity desired already broken on a
dish, with a plate of grated cheese and a tin cup, with the necessary amount of
butter to be melted, side by side. If there is a fillet of beef to be baked and
served with a mushroom-sauce, have the fillet in the 
 baking-pan  already larded, the mushrooms in the basin in
which they are to be cooked, at the side; also the piece of lemon and the
spoonful of flour ready. The stock will be in the kettle at the back of the
stove. By-the-way, in giving a fine dinner, there should always be an extra 
 stock-pot,  separate from the soup, at the back of the
stove, as it is excellent for boiling the sweet-breads or the macaroni, and
making the sauces, etc. 
 If a simple salad of lettuce is to be served, have the oil, vinegar, pepper
and salt, and the spoonful of finely chopped onion, in a group all ready. If a 
 Mayonnaise  dressing is to be served, that should be
made in the morning. 
 Look at the clock in the kitchen, and calculate the time it will take each
dish to cook, and put it to the fire, so that it will be finished "to a turn"
just at the proper minute. 
 During dinner, one person should attend to placing out of the way all the
dishes brought from the dining-room, and, if necessary, should wash any spoons,
platters, etc., which may be needed a second time. She should know beforehand,
however, just what she is to wash, as every one must know exactly her own
business, so that no questions need be asked at the last moment. The cook can
attend to nothing but the cooking, at the risk of neglecting this most
important part.  
 As the course just before the salad is sent into the dining-room, begin to
make the salad, having every thing all ready. First, pick over the
lettuce-leaves, wash and leave them to drain, while you prepare the dressing.
It should 
 just  be ready when its turn comes to be sent to
table. 
 If the dinner company is very large, and there are many dishes, the cooking
of them may be distributed between two persons, and perhaps the second cook may
use the laundry stove; but with a little practice and the one or two
assistants, 
 one  cook can easily prepare the most elaborate
dinner, if it is only properly managed before the time of cooking. She should,
of course, never attempt any dish she has not made before. A 
 bain-marie  is very convenient for
preserving cooked dishes, if there is some delay in serving the dinner. 
 Of all things, never on any occasion serve a large joint or large article of
any kind on a little platter, as nothing looks so awkward. Let the platter
always be at least a third larger than the size of its contents. 
 I give several bills of fare. They are long enough and good enough for any
dinner party. Guests do not care for better or more, if these are only properly
cooked. They can be easily prepared in one's own house, and this is always more
elegant than to have a list of a hundred dishes from a restaurant.   A WINTER DINNER.   Oysters on the half-shell.  Amber soup.  Salmon;
sauce-Hollandaise.  Sweet-breads and
pease.  Lamb-chops; tomato-sauce.  Fillet of beef, with mushrooms.  Roast
quails; Saratoga potatoes.  Salad;
lettuce.  Cheese; celery; wafers.  Charlotte-russe, with French bottled strawberries around
it.  Chocolate Fruit Ice-cream.  Fruit.  Coffee.  
 The same bill of fare in French is as follows:     MENU.   Hu&#238;tres.  Consomm&#233; de b&#x0153;uf clair.  Saumon; sauce Hollandaise.  Ris de
veau aux petits pois.  C&#244;telettes d'agneau
&#224; la Pur&#233;e de tomate.  Filet de
b&#x0153;uf aux champignons.  Cailles grill&#233;es
aux pommes de terre.  Salade.  Fromage; c&#233;leri.  Charlotte-russe aux fraises.  Plum-pudding glac&#233;s.  Fruits.  Caf&#233;.  
 This is a bill of fare seen very often at dinner parties. It is not
difficult to prepare, as there are only five of the courses which are
necessarily prepared at dinner-time. The oyster course is very simple, and may
be placed on the table before the guests enter the dining-room. This soup may
be made the day before, and only reheated at the time of serving. The Saratoga
potatoes may be made in the morning; and if the 
 charlotte-russe  is not purchased at a restaurant, it
may be made the day before. So, after the quails are broiled or roasted, the
cook has nothing more to do but to make the salad, which is an affair of three
minutes, and the coffee, for which she has a long time, the coffee having been
ground and in readiness in the  coffee-pot  two or three
hours before dinner. The four last courses before the coffee are easily
purchased outside. The cheese might be a Neufchatel or a Roquefort. The 
 charlotte  and the ice-cream can come from the
confectioner's. The fruit is on the table during the dinner as one of the
decorations.    DINNER
BILL OF FARE.   Roman punch.  Giblet soup.  Little vols-au-vent of oysters.  Smelts; tomato-sauce.  Scolloped
chickens ( en coquille ); Bechamel sauce.  Saddle
of venison; potatoes &#224; la neige.  Breasts of
quails in cutlets, with French pease.   Salad of lettuce.  Cheese
omelet.  Pine-apple Bavarian cream.  Vanilla
ice-cream, and ginger preserve; little cakes.  Fruits.  Coffee.     MENU.   Punch &#224; la Romaine.  Bouch&#233;es d'hu&#238;tres.  Les
&#233;perlans frits; sauce tomate.  Coquilles de
volaille &#224; la Bechamel.  Selle de venaison
&#224; la Pur&#233;e de pommes de terre.  Filets
de cailles aux petits pois.  Salade de
laitue.  Omelette au fromage.  Le Bavaroix.  Glace &#224; la
cr&#232;me de vanille.  Dessert.  Caf&#233;.     DINNER BILL OF FARE ( Spring ).   Macaroni, clear soup, with grated cheese.  Salmon; lobster-sauce; cucumbers.  Chicken croquettes; tomato-sauce.  Sweet-breads in cases, or in  silver
scallop-shells;  sauce Bechamel.  Fillet
of beef, with mushrooms.  Roman punch.  Snipe; potatoes &#224; la Parisienne.  Mayonnaise of chicken.  Asparagus,
with cream dressing.  Ramequins.  Champagne jelly en mac&#233;doine, with whipped
cream.  Neapolitan ice-cream; little
cakes.  Fruits.     MENU.   Potage au macaroni clair.  Saumon aux
concombres; sauce homard.  Croquettes de volaille;
sauce tomate.  Ris de veau en papillotes, &#224; la
Bechamel.  Filet de b&#x0153;uf aux
champignons.   Punch
&#224; la Romaine.  B&#233;casses; pommes de
terre &#224; la Parisienne.  Mayonnaise de
volaille.  Asperges &#224; la
cr&#232;me.  Ramequins.  Mac&#233;doine de fruits.  Glace de
cr&#232;me &#224; la Napolitaine.  Dessert.     DINNER BILL OF FARE ( Winter. ).   Oysters served in block of ice.  Julienne soup (can purchase it canned).  Soft-shell crabs.  Sweet-breads;
tomato-sauce.  Braised pigeons, with
spinach.  Fillet of beef; sauce
Hollandaise.  Roman punch, in
lemon-skins.  Fillets of ducks, larded;
poivrade-sauce; salad of vegetables.  French canned
string-beans ( haricots verts ) saut&#233;d with
butter, served on toast.  Macaroni, with
cheese.  Maraschino Bavarian cream.  Chocolate-pudding, iced.  Fruits.  Coffee.     MENU.   Hu&#238;tres.  Potage &#224; la julienne.  &#233;crevisses frites.  Ris de
veau; sauce tomate.  Pigeons &#224;
l'&#233;carlate.  Filet de b&#x0153;uf; sauce
Hollandaise.  Sorbet.  Filets de canards; sauce poivrade; salade de
l&#233;gumes.  Haricots verts saut&#233;s au
beurre.  Macaroni au Parmesan.  Le Bavaroix au maraschino.  Pounding
de chocolat glac&#233;.  Fruits.  Caf&#233;.    
  DINNER BILL OF FARE ( Winter ).   Mock-turtle soup (can be purchased canned).  Boiled white-fish, garnished with potatoes au naturel and
olives; sauce Hollandaise.  Fried oysters; cold
slaw.  Casserole of sweet-breads; cream-sauce,
decorated around the base with green pease.  Roast
wild turkey, chestnut stuffing; Saratoga potatoes.  Fried cream.  Spinach on toast,
garnished with hard-boiled eggs.  Salad; lettuce,
with small, thin diamonds of fried ham.  Cheese;
wafers; celery.  Little cocoa-nut puddings in 
 paper cases.   Ice-cream and
cakes.  Fruit.  Coffee.     MENU.   Potage &#224; la t&#234;te de veau en
tortue, or potage fausse tortue.  White-fish; sauce
Hollandiase.  Hu&#238;tres frites.  Casserole de ris de veau aux petits pois.  Dinde sauvage r&#244;tie.  Beignets
de bouillie, or cr&#232;me frite.  &#233;pinards
aux &#x0153;ufs.  Salade.  Souffl&#233;.  Glace de cr&#232;me
au chocolat.  Fruits.  Caf&#233;.     DINNER BILL OF FARE ( Winter ).   Oysters on half shell.  Amber
soup.  Fish croquettes (pear-shape), garnished with
parsley.  Rice casserole, filled with blanquette of
chicken.  Roast beef (ribs rolled), with a circle of
mashed potatoes &#224; la neige and water-cresses.  Canvas-back ducks; celery.  Roman
punch.  Reed-birds cooked in sweet-potatoes. 
  Poached eggs on anchovy
toast.  Salad.  Coffee;
Bavarian cream.  Nesselrode pudding.  Fruits.  Caf&#233;.     MENU.   Hu&#238;tres.  Consomm&#233; de
b&#x0153;uf clair.  Croquettes de
poisson.  Blanquette de volaille.  B&#x0153;uf r&#244;ti &#224; la Pur&#233;e de pommes de
terre.  Canards; c&#233;leri.  Punch &#224; la Romaine.  &#x0152;ufs poch&#233;s aux cro&#251;tes
d'anchois.  Salade.  Bavaroix au caf&#233;.  Pouding
&#224; la Nesselrode.  Fruits.  Caf&#233;.     DINNER BILL OF FARE ( Summer ).   Clear amber soup.  Fried cuts of fish,
with tomato-sauce.  Sweet-breads and cauliflowers
(cream dressing over both).  Croquettes of chicken
(in form of cutlets), with pease.  Roast lamb;
caper-sauce; spinach.  Green corn served in
husks. *   Sliced tomatoes,
with Mayonnaise dressing.  Cheese; wafers;
cucumbers.  Maraschino Bavarian cream, and fresh
strawberries.  Ice-cream.  Fruits.  
 *Foreigners consider it vulgar to eat corn from the
cob, although quite elegant to eat asparagus with their
fingers.--ED.    MENU.   Consomm&#233; de b&#x0153;uf clair.  White-fish &#224; l'Orlay.  Ris de
veau aux choux-fleurs.   Croquettes de volaille aux petits pois.  Agneau r&#244;ti aux &#233;pinards.  Mayonnaise de tomate.  Fromage;
concombres.  Bavaroix au maraschino.  Glace de cr&#232;me au chocolat.  Dessert.     A SIMPLE DINNER FOR FOUR PERSONS ( Menu ).   Soup, with fried bread ( aux cro&#251;tons ).  Chicken,
with rice (see page 177).  Macaroni, with
tomato-sauce (see page 210).  Lettuce, with
Mayonnaise dressing.  Corn-starch pudding (page 275),
with a circle of peach marmalade around.  
 Necessary--a soup-bone, a soup-bunch, with plenty of parsley, a large
chicken, half a pound of macaroni, a half-pint can of tomatoes, three-fourths
of a tea-cupful of rice. 
 Make the 
 Mayonnaise  dressing with three eggs in the morning.
Use the whites of the eggs for the corn-starch pudding, which make at the same
time, and put away in a mold to harden. Also put aside the rice to soak in cold
water. 
 Five hours before dinner, put on the soup-bone, with the neck of the chicken
also, as every little adds. An hour before dinner, cut up the soup-bunch,
saving part of it for the tomato-sauce, as one or two sprigs of the parsley and
a small onion. Put the remaining vegetables (frying the onion) into the soup,
leaving only a sprig of parsley for the chicken. Cut up the pieces of chicken,
which fry or 
 saut&#233;  brown in some hot drippings; put them
then into a  stew-pan.  Add to the drippings (about a
table-spoonful) a tea-spoonful of flour, and, when rubbed smooth, a pint of hot
water, a ladleful of the soup taken from the 
 soup-kettle,  and a sprig of parsley chopped fine. Add
this now to the fried pieces of chicken in the 
 stew-pan; let them simmer until about five minutes before
dinner. 
 For the soup, cut some bread into rather large dice, say three-quarters of
an inch square; fry, or rather 
 saut&#233;,  them in a little butter, turning all
sides of the bread to allow it to become brown. Place the dice in the open
oven, or at the back of the range, to become perfectly dry before the
dinner-hour. Half an  hour before dinner, put the
macaroni to boil in another ladleful of stock mixed with some salted boiling
water. Now make the tomato-sauce: make it as in receipt, and place it at the
side of the fire or in the  bain-marie until
the macaroni is done. Put on the rice to boil for about fifteen minutes in a
little salted boiling water. 
 Just before serving the dinner is the busiest time. Strain the macaroni, and
mix it with the sauce; put it into the oven for a few minutes to soak. Strain
the soup, remove all the grease, and season it with pepper and salt. Put the
bread dice, or 
 cro&#251;tons,  into the 
 soup-tureen,  pour over the soup, and send it to table.
Take out the pieces of chicken, which arrange neatly on a warm platter; strain
the stock in which it was boiled, remove all the fat, add the rice to it,
season with pepper and salt, and let it simmer on the fire until it is time to
be served, and then pour it over the chickens, and send them into the
dining-room. The lettuce is next washed and dressed; afterward the pudding is
turned from the mold, and decorated with the circle of peach
marmalade.      
  ENGLISH AND FRENCH
GLOSSARY.   SOUPS.   Amber
or clear soup..........................  Consomm&#233; de
b&#x0153;uf clair.    Soup, with
bread.............................  Potage aux
cro&#251;tons.    Soup, with
vegetables........................  Consomm&#233; aux
l&#233;gumes.    Macaroni
soup................................  Consomm&#233; au
macaroni.    Noodle
soup..................................  Consomm&#233; aux
nouilles.    Vermicelli
soup..............................  Consomm&#233; aux
vermicelles.    Spring
soup..................................  Potage
printanier.    Julienne
soup................................  Potage &#224;
julienne.    Asparagus
soup...............................  Potage
d'asperge.    Ox-tail
soup.................................  Potage aux queues de
b&#x0153;uf.    Chicken
Pur&#233;e................................  Potage &#224; la
Pur&#233;e de volaille.    Chicken
soup.................................  Consomm&#233; de
volaille.    Mock-turtle
soup.............................  Potage &#224; la fausse
tortue.    Oyster
soup..................................  Potage aux
hu&#238;tres.    Bean
soup....................................  Potage &#224; la
Pur&#233;e d'haricots.    Onion
soup...................................  Soup &#224;
l'ognon.    Vegetable
Pur&#233;e..............................  Pur&#233;e de
legumes.    Tomato
soup..................................  Potage aux
tomates.    Potato
soup..................................  Potage &#224; la
Pur&#233;e de pommes de terre.    Sorrel
soup..................................  Soup &#224;
l'oseille.   FISH.   Salmon, sauce
Hollandaise....................  Saumon, sauce
Hollandaise.    Salmon, with
lobster-sauce...................  Saumon, sauce
homard.    Salmon, with
parsley-sauce...................  Saumon, sauce au
persil.    Salmon, with
egg-sauce.......................  Saumon, sauce aux
&#x0153;ufs.    Salmon, with
potatoes........................  Saumon aux pommes de
terre.    Slices of
salmon.............................  Tranches de
saumon.    Middle cut of
salmon.........................  Tron&#231;on de
saumon.    Salmon cutlets, with
pickles.................  C&#244;telettes de saumon aux
cornichons.    Salmon, with
cucumbers.......................  Saumon aux
concombres.     Sardines,
broiled............................  Sardines
grill&#233;es.    Smelts,
fried................................  &#233;perlans
frits.    Little trout,
fried..........................  Petites truites
frites.    Trout, in
shells.............................  Truite en
coquilles.    Salmon-trout.................................  Truite
saumon&#233;e.    Trout cooked au court
bouillon...............  Truite au court
bouillon.    Codfish, with
caper-sauce....................  Morue &#224; la sauce aux
c&#226;pres.    Codfish, with Bechamel
sauce.................  Morue &#224; la
Bechamel.    Codfish, with
potatoes.......................  Morue aux pommes de
terre.    Eels au
gratin...............................  Gratin
d'anguilles.    Eels en
matelote.............................  Matelote
d'anguilles.    Fresh mackerel, with
ma&#238;tre-d'h&#244;tel butter...  Maquereau frais &#224; la
ma&#238;tre-d'h&#244;tel   OYSTERS.   Oysters in
shells............................  H&#251;itres en
coquille.    Oysters
fried................................  H&#251;itres
frites.    Oyster
fritters..............................  Beignets
d'h&#251;itres.    Oyster
patties...............................  Petits vol-au-vent
d'h&#251;itres, ou bouch&#233;es d'h&#251;itres.   SAUCES.   White sauce (made with
stock)................  Sauce &#224; la
Bechamel.    Pickle-sauce.................................  Sauce
aux
cornichons.    Egg-sauce....................................  Sauce
aux
&#x0153;ufs.    Caper-sauce..................................  Sauce
aux
c&#226;pres.    Anchovy-sauce................................  Sauce
aux
anchois.    Shrimp-sauce.................................  Sauce
aux
crevettes.    Lobster-sauce................................  Sauce
homard.    Oyster-sauce.................................  Sauce
aux
h&#251;itres.    Parsley-sauce................................  Sauce
au
persil.    Cauliflower-sauce............................  Sauce
au chou-fleur.    Madeira-wine
sauce...........................  Sauce au vin de
Mad&#232;re.    Currant-jelly
sauce..........................  Sauce aux
groseilles.    Tomato-sauce.................................  Sauce
tomate.    Mushroom-sauce...............................  Sauce
aux champignons.   MEATS.   Roast
fillet of beef.........................  Filet de b&#x0153;uf
r&#244;ti.    Fillet of beef,
larded.......................  Filet de b&#x0153;uf
piqu&#233;.    Fillet of beef, with
mushrooms...............  Filet de b&#x0153;uf aux
champignons.    Braised
beef.................................  B&#x0153;uf
brais&#233;.     Braised
beef, with vegetables................  B&#x0153;uf brais&#233;
&#224; la jardini&#232;re.    Beef
hash....................................  H&#226;chis de
b&#x0153;uf.    Beefsteak, with
mushrooms....................  Bifteck aux
champignons.    Beefsteak
pie................................  P&#226;t&#233; de
biftecks.    &#224;-la-mode
beef...............................  B&#x0153;uf &#224; la
mode.    Pickled
tongue...............................  Langue de b&#x0153;uf
&#224; l'&#233;carlate.    Mutton
tongues...............................  Langues de
mouton.    Saddle of mutton
(roast).....................  Selle de mouton
r&#244;tie.    Shoulder of mutton,
stuffed..................  Poitrine de mouton
farcie.    Mutton
stew..................................  Ragout de
mouton.    Mutton cutlets,
broiled......................  C&#244;telettes de mouton
grill&#233;es.    Mutton cutlets,
breaded......................  C&#244;telettes de mouton
pan&#233;es.    Mutton cutlets, with
pease...................  C&#244;telettes de mouton aux petits
pois.    Sheep's
kidneys..............................  Rognons de
mouton.    Lamb
cutlets.................................  C&#244;telettes de
d'agneau.    Lamb
croquettes..............................  Croquettes
d'agneau.    Veal cutlets, with
mushrooms.................  C&#244;telettes de veau aux
champignons.    Veal cutlets, with
tomato-sauce..............  C&#244;telettes de veau, sauce
tomate.    Fricandeau of
veal...........................  Fricandeau de
veau.    Liver,
broiled...............................  Foie de veau
grill&#233;.    Pork cutlets, with
pickles...................  C&#244;telettes de porc qux
cornichons.    Cold
ham.....................................  Jambon
froid.    Blanquette of
veal...........................  Blanquette de veau.   SWEET-BREADS.   Sweet-breads, with
macaroni..................  Ris de veau &#224; la
Milanaise.    Sweet-breads, with
tomato-sauce..............  Ris de veau &#224; la sauce
tomate.    Sweet-breads, with
pease.....................  Ris de veau aux petits
pois.    Sweet-breads,
larded.........................  Ris de veau
piqu&#233;.    Sweet-breads
fritters........................  Beignets de ris de
veau.    Sweet-breads
croquettes......................  Croquettes de ris de
veau.   POULTRY AND GAME.   Stuffed
turkey...............................  Dinde
farcie.    Larded
turkey................................  Dinde
piqu&#233;e.    Turkey,
celery-sauce.........................  Dinde, sauce
c&#233;leri.    Roast wild
turkey............................  Dinde sauvage
r&#244;tie.    Boned
turkey.................................  Galatine de
dinde.    Fricassee of
chicken.........................  Fricass&#233;e de
poulet.    Chicken breasts, with
pease..................  Filets de poulet aux petits
pois.    Roast spring
chicken.........................  Poulets nouveaux
r&#244;tis.    Chickens, with
tomatoes......................  Poulets aux
tomates.    Chickens, with
cauliflowers..................  Poulets aux
choux-fleurs.     Chickens,
with rice..........................  Poulets au
ris.    Fried
chickens...............................  Poulets
sautr&#233;s.    Chicken
croquettes...........................  Croquettes de
volaille.    Wild
duck....................................  Canard
sauvage.    Pigeon-pie...................................  Patc&#233;
chaud de pigeons.    Pigeon
stew..................................  Comp&#244;te de
pigeons.    Roast pigeons, with
string-beans.............  Pigeons r&#244;tis aux haricots
verts.    Roast pigeons, with
spinach..................  Pigeons r&#244;tis aux
&#233;pinards.    Braised pigeons, with
spinach................  Pigeons &#224;
l'&#233;carlate.    Grouse.......................................  Grouse.    Roast
woodcock...............................  B&#233;casses
r&#244;tie.    Roast
quails.................................  Cailles
r&#244;ties.    Prairie-chicken, or partridge
cutlets........  C&#244;telettes de
perdreux.    Saddle of
venison............................  Selle de
vennison.    Squabs, with
water-cresses...................  Pigeonnaux au
cresson.    Pheasant,
larded.............................  Faisan
piqu&#233;.   VEGETABLES.   Potatoes, with
white-sauce...................  Pommes de terre &#224; la sauce
blanche.    Lyonnaise
potatoes...........................  Pommes de terre &#224; la
Lyonnaise.    Potatoes in
cases............................  Pommes de terre
farcies.    Fried
potatoes...............................  Pommes de terre
frites.    Parsnip
fritters.............................  Beignets de
panais.    Asparagus....................................  Asperges.    Cauliflowers,
with cream dressing............  Choux-fleurs &#224; la
cr&#232;me.    Spinach......................................  &#233;pinards.    String-beans.................................  Haricots
verts.    Mashed
potatoes..............................  Pur&#233;e de pommes de
terre.    Pease, with
butter...........................  Petits pois au
beurre.    Stuffed
tomatoes.............................  Tomates
farcies.   SHELLS.   Chickens in
shells...........................  Coquilles de
volaille.    Lobster in
shells............................  Coquilles de
homard.    Fish in
shells...............................  Coquilles de
poisson.    Mushrooms in
shells..........................  Coquilles de
champignons.   MACARONI.   Macaroni,
with cheese........................  Macaroni au
fromage.    Macaroni, with
tomato-sauce..................  Macaroni, sauce tomato.  
  EGGS.   Stuffed
eggs.................................  &#x0152;uefs
farcis.    Poached
eggs.................................  &#x0152;uefs
poch&#233;s.    Poached eggs, on anchovy
toast...............  &#x0152;uefs poch&#233;s aux cro&#251;tes
d'anchois.    Omelet, with fine
herbs......................  Omelette aux fines
herbes.    Omelet, with
mushrooms.......................  Omelette aux
champignons.    Omelet, with
ham.............................  Omelette au
jambon.    Omelet, with
rum.............................  Omelette au
rhum.    Omelet, with
preserves.......................  Omelette aux
confitures.    Omelet Souffl&#233;, with
preserves...............  Omelette Souffl&#233; aux
confitures.   SALADS.   Chicken
Mayonnaise...........................  Mayonnaise de
volaille.    Cauliflower
Mayonnaise.......................  Mayonnaise de
choux-fleurs.    Tomato
Mayonnaise............................  Mayonnaise de
tomates.    Salad of
vegetables..........................  Salade de
l&#233;gumes,    Lettuce
salad................................  Salade de
laitue.   FRITTERS.   Peach
fritters...............................  Beignets de
p&#234;ches.    Cream
fritters...............................  Beignets de bouillie, or
Cr&#232;me frite.    Oyster
fritters..............................  Beignets
d'hu&#238;tres.   LITTLE VOLS-AU-VENT, OR
BOUCH&#233;RS.   Patties of
chickens..........................  Bouch&#233;es au
poulet.    Almost any kind of meat patties are
called...  Bouch&#233;es &#224; la
reine.    Strawberry
patties...........................  Bouch&#233;es aux
fraises.    Patties, with lemon
paste....................  Bouch&#233;es au
citron.    Little tarts of
preserves....................  Tartelettes aux
confitures.    Little tarts of
apples.......................  Tartelettes aux
pommes.   PUDDINGS.   Cabinet-pudding..............................  Pounding
de
cabinet.    Rice-pudding.................................  Pounding
au riz.    Roly-poly
pudding............................  Pounding
roul&#233;.    Bread-pudding................................  Pounding
au pain.    Rice-pudding, with
peaches...................  Pounding de riz aux
p&#234;ches.    Apple
souffl&#233;................................  Souffl&#233; de
pommes.    Apple-pie....................................  Tarte
aux pommes.     Chocolate
Bavarian cream.....................  Bavaroise au
chocolat.    Coffee Bavarian
cream........................  Bavaroise au
caf&#233;.    Pine-apple Bavarian
cream....................  Bavaroise &#224;
l'ananas.   DESSERTS.   Blanc-mange..................................  Blanc-manger.    Peach
compote................................  Compote de
p&#234;ches.    Apple
compote................................  Compote de
pommes.    Iced
champagne...............................  Champagne
frapp&#233;.    Ice-cream,
vanilla...........................  Cr&#232;me glac&#233;
&#224; la vanille.    Ices of any kind generally written
in menus..  Glaces.    Chocolate
ice-cream..........................  Glace de cr&#232;me au
chocolat.    Madeira-wine
jelly...........................  Gel&#233;e au
Mad&#232;re.    Whipped jelly, with
fruits...................  Gel&#233;e fouett&#233;e aux
fruits.    Champagne
jelly..............................  Gel&#233;e au vin de
Champagne.    Jelly, with
fruits...........................  Gel&#233;e &#224; la
mac&#233;doine.    Macaroons....................................  Macarons
aux amandes.    Peach
marmalade..............................  Marmalade
d'abricots.     
  GENERAL
INDEX.   PAGE  SETTING THE TABLE AND
SERVING THE DINNER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13   THE DINNER PARTY . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  27   COOKING AS AN ACCOMPLISHMENT .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  30   BREAKFAST . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  33   LUNCH . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  36   GENTLEMENT'S SUPPERS . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  39   EVENING PARTIES . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  40   SOMETHING ABOUT ECONOMY . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  40   COOKING UTENSILS . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  51    DIRECTIONS
AND EXPLANATIONS.   Boiling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  43   Frying . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  43    " to Prepare Grease for . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  44   Broiling . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  45   Roasting . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  46   Saut&#233;ing . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  47   Braising . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  47   Larding . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  48   Boning . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  48   Egg and Bread Crumbing . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  48   To Cook Puddings in Boiling
Water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  49   Dried Celery, Parsley, etc.,
for Winter Use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  49   Seeds for Soups . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  49   To Flavor with Lemon Zest . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  50   The Cook's Table of Weights and
Measures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  50   To Chop Suet . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  50   Rising-powder Proportions . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  50   To make Roux . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  51    BREAD, AND
BRAKFAST CAKES.   To make Yeast . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  63   To make Bread . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  64   Mrs. Bonner's Bread . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  64   French Bread . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  65   Petits Pains . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  66   Toast . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  67   Dixie Biscuit . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  68   Graham Bread . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  68   Rusks . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  68   Parker House Rolls . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  68   Beaten Biscuit . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  68   Soda and Cream of Tartar
Biscuit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  69   Biscuits with Baking-powder . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  69   Muffins . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  70   Waffles . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  70   Rice Waffles . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  70   Rice Pancakes . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  70   Hominy Cake . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  70   Baked Hominy Grits . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  71   Breakfast Puffs, or Pop-overs .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  71   Henriettes for Tea (No. 1) . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  71   Henriettes for Breakfast or Tea
(No. 2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  71   Wafer Biscuits . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  72   Corn Bread . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  72    PAGE  Hoe Cake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  72   Corn Cake . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  73   Fried Corn Mush for Breakfast .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  73   Corn Mush . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  73   Oatmeal Porridge . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  74   Mother Johnson's Pancakes . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  74   PAGE  Sirup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  74   Buckwheat Cakes . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  74   Pancakes, with Flour or
Cornmeal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  75   Pancakes, with Bread-crumbs . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  75   Strawberry Short-cake . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  75    TEA . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  76   COFFEE . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  76   CHOCOLATE . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  78   COCOA . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  78    SOUPS.   Stock, or Pot au Feu . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  79   A Simple Stock . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  80   Gouff&#233;'s Receipt for
Stock, or Bouillon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  80   Bouillon served at Luncheons,
Germans, etc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  81   Amber Soup, or Clear Broth . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  81   To make Caramel, or Burned
Sugar, for coloring Broth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  82   Thickenings for Soup . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  82   Additions to Beef Stock, to
form Other Kinds of Soup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  82   Receipt for Force-meat Balls .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  82   Soup, Macaroni . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  83    " Vermicelli . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  84   Noodles . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  84    " to serve as a Vegetable . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  85   Soup, Beef Noodle . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  85    " Spring . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  85    " Julienne, with Poached Eggs
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  86    " Asparagus . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  86   Spinach Green . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  87   Soup, Ox-tail . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  87    " Chicken (Potage &#224; la
Reine) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  87    " Pur&#233;e of Chicken . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  88   Soup, Plain Chicken . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  88    " Giblet . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  88    " Mock-turtle: Receipts for
Egg and Meat Balls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 89, 90    " Mock-turtle (simple) . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  91    " Gumbo . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  91    " Gumbo and Tomato . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  91    " Mullagataway (an Indian
Soup) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  92    " Oyster . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  93    " Clam . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  93    " Bean . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  94    " Bean and Tomato . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  94    " Onion (Soupe &#224; la
l'Ognon) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  94    " Vegetable, without Meat
(Pur&#233;e aux L&#233;gumes) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 
  95    " Corn . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  96    " Tomato, with Rice . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  96    " Tomato (Pur&#233;e aux
Tomates) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  96    " Sorrel (Soupe &#224; la
Bonne Femme) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  97    " Potato (No. 1) . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  97    " Potato (No. 2) . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  98   Pur&#233;e of String-beans .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  98   Bisque of Lobster . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  98    FISH.   Fish, to Boil . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 100    " " au Court Bouillon . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 100    " to Fry . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 101    " fried in Batter . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 101    " to Broil . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 102    " to Bake . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 103    Stuffings
for Fish  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . 
 103   Bread Stuffing
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 103   Meat Stuffing .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 103   To Bake a Fish
with Wine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 103   To Stew Fish, or Fish en
Matelote . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 104   To Cook Fish au Gratin . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 104   Fish &#224; la Cr&#232;me .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 105    Salmon  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 106   Salmon, to
Broil . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 
 107    PAGE  Salmon Cutlets . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 108    " Slices of,
Boiled . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 108    " Canned . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 108    Shad 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . 
 108    Trout  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 108   Trout in Cases
or in Shells (en Coquilles) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 109    Cod-fish  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 109   Cod-fish,
Crimped . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 
 109   PAGE  Cod-fish, Salt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 110    " Balls . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 110   Fish Chowder . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 110   Perch, Sun-fish, etc.
(Pan-fish) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111    Mackerel 
and 
 Smelts  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 111   Fried Slices of Fish, with
Tomato-sauce (Fish &#224; l'Orlay) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 112   To Fry Eels . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 112   Eels Stewed . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 112    SHELL-FISH.    Oysters  .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . 
 113   Oysters, Raw
and Fried . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 113    " Scalloped,
in Shells . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 113    " Scalloped .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 114   Oyster Soup . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  93    " Stew . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 115   Oysters,
Fricassee of (Oysters &#224; la Boulette) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . 
 115   Oyster Fritters
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 230   Oysters for
Patties, or Vols-au-vent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 
 241   Oysters,
Canned, to Roast . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . 
 116    " Spiced . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 116    Clams  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 116   Clams Cooked
with Cream . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 116   Clam Chowder .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 116    " " Tunison .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 117    " Fritters . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 230    " Soup . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 117    Crabs and
Lobsters  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . 
 117   Crabs,
Soft-shell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . 
 117    " Deviled . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 117   Lobster,
Deviled . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . 
 118    " Chops . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 118    " a Good Way
to Prepare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 118    FROGS, FRIED . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 118    SAUCES.   Sauce, Drawn-butter . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 121    " Pickle . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 121    " Boiled-egg . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 121    " Caper . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 122    " Anchovy . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 122    " Shrimp . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 122    " Lobster . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 122    " Oyster . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 123    " Parsley . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 123    " Cauliflower . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 123    " Lemon . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 123    " Chicken . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 123    " Ma&#238;tre d'h&#244;tel
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 124    " Mint . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 124   Sauce, Currant-jelly . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 124    " Tomato (No. 1) . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 124    " Tomato (No. 2) . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 125    " Hollandaise, or Dutch Sauce
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 125   Mushrooms, for Garnish . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 126   Sauce, Mushroom . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 126    " " White . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 126    " " (Canned) . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 127    " Bechamel (Simple) . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 127    " " . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 127    " aux Fines Herbes . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 128    " Tartare . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 128    " Brown (Simple) . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 128    BEEF.   Beef, to Roast or Bake . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 130   Yorkshire Pudding . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 130   Beef &#224; la Mode . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 131    " Braised (No. 1) . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 132   Beef, Braised (No. 2) . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 132    " " with Horse-radish Sauce .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 133    " Fillet of . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 133    PAGE  Beef, Fillet of, to Trim . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 133    " " to Cook . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 134    " " to Garnish . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 135    " " to Roast . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 135    " " to Braise . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 136    " " to Trim with Vegetables
(&#224; la Jardini&#232;re) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 136    " " Cut into Slices or
Scollops . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 137   Beefsteak . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 137   Beef, Corned . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 138    " " to serve Cold . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 139   Beefsteak Stewed . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 139    " Rolled . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 140   Beef Roll (Cannelon de
B&#x0153;uf) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 
 140   PAGE  What to do with Cold Cooked Beef . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 140   Beef Hash . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 141   Meat Pie . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 141    " Rissoles . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 142   Beef or any Cold-meat Sausages
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 143   Rice and Meat Cakes . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 143   Beef Croquettes . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 143   A Cheap Arrangement . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 144   Mince-pies (made from Remnants
of Cold Beef) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 144   Pot-pie of Veal, Beef, or
Chicken Calf's Heart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 144   Calf's Heart . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 144   Tongue, with Sauce . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 145    " Slices, with Spinach and
Sauce Tartare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 145    VEAL.   Roast of Veal-the Fillet . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 146   A Fricandeau of Veal . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 147   Veal Cutlets, Broiled . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 147    " " Saut&#233;d and Fried .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 148    " " Braised . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 148    " or Mutton Chops (en
Papillote) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 148   Blanquette of Veal . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 149   Blind Hare . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 150   Bewitched Veal . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 150   Plain Veal Stew or Pot-pie . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 150   To Cook Liver (No. 1) . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 151    " " (No. 2) . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 151   Calf's Brains . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 151    SWEAT-BREADS.   Sweet-breads Fried . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 152    " &#224; la Milannaise . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 153    " Larded and Braised . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 153   Sweet-breads Baked . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 154   Sweet-bread Fritters . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 154    " Croquettes . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 154   Skewer of Sweet-breads . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 155    MUTTON.   Leg of Mutton Boiled . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 156   Mutton Cutlets . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 156   Ragouts . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 156   Another Ragout . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 157   Sheep's Tongues, with Spinach .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 156    " " &#224; la Mayonnaise . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 156    " " with Sauce Tartare . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 156    LAMB.   Lamb, Leg of, Roasted . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 159    " Fore Quarter of, Roasted . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 159    " Chops . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 159   Saddle of Lamb or Mutton . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 159   Lamb Croquettes . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 160   Sheep's Kidneys . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 160    PORK.   To Cure Bacon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 161   Roast Little Pig . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 161   Pork, Roast . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 161    " Cutlets, Broiled . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 162    PAGE  Pork and Beans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 162   Boston Baked Beans . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 162   Entr&#233;e of Apples and
Pork . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 163   Sausages . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 163   Hams, to Cure . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 163   Ham, to Boil . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 164    " and Eggs . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 164    " to Fry or Saut&#233; . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 164   PAGE  Pork Fried in Batter, or Egged and Bread-crumbed
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 164   Breakfast-bacon Dish (Mrs.
Trowbridge's) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 164   Rashers of Pork . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 165   Sandwiches (No. 1) . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 165    " (No. 2) . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 165   Small Rolls, with Salad Filling
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 165    POULTRY.   Turkey, Roast . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 166   Stuffing for Baked Turkey,
Chicken, Veal, and Lamb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 167   Stuffing for Roast Turkeys,
Chickens, Ducks, and Geese . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 167   Chestnut, Potato, Veal, and
Oyster Stuffings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 168   Turkey, Boiled . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 168    " or Chicken Hash . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 168    " Braised . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 168    " Galantine, or Boned Turkey .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 169   Mixed Spices for Seasoning . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 170   Boned Turkey or Chicken
(Simple) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 170    Chickens  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 171   Chickens,
Spring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . 
 171    " " Baked . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 172    " Roast and
Boiled . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 172   Chickens or
Fish, Baked . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 172    " Fricassee of
(No. 1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 173    " " (No. 2) .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 174    " Ranaque . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 174   Chicken Breasts
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 175    " Deviled,
with Sauce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 175    " Croquettes
(No. 1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 175    " " (No. 2) .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 176    " Cutlets . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 176    " with
Macaroni or with Rice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 177    " Chetney of .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 177    " Curry of . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 178    " for Supper .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 178   To Fringe
Celery for Garnishing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 
 179   Chicken Livers
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 179   Turkish Pilau .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 179    GEESE, DUCKS,
AND GAME.   Goose, Roast . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 180    " Stuffing . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 181   Ducks . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 181    " Wild . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 181    " and Pease, Stewed . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 182    " Stewed . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 182    " Fillet of . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 182   Poivrade Sauce . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 182   Pigeons Stewed in Broth . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 182    " Roast . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 183    " Broiled . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 183   Prairie-chicken or Grouse . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 183    " to Choose a Young . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 184    " or Grouse, Roasted . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 184   Quails Parboiled and Baked . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 184    " Roasted . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 185   Bread-sauce, for Game . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 185   Cutlets of Quails or of Pigeons
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 185   Scollops of Quails, with
Truffles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 186   Espagnole Sauce . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 186   Quails Broiled . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 187    " Braised . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 187   Snipe and Woodcock Fried . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 187    " " Roasted . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 187   Reed-birds . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 188   Plovers . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 188   Pheasants . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 188    Venison  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 188   Venison, the
Saddle of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 188    " Haunch of,
Roast or Baked . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 189    " Steaks, to
Broil . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 189    " Stewed . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 189   Rabbits Roasted . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 189    " Baked . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 190    VEGETABLES.  PAGE  Vegetables,
to Preserve thee Color . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . 
 190   Potatoes Boiled (No. 1) . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 190    " Mashed (No. 2) . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 191    " &#224; la Neige . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 191    " to Bake . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 192    " in Cases . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 192    " Baked with Beef . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 192    " &#224; la Parisienne . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 193    " Saratoga . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 193    " Fried . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 194    " Lyonnaise . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 194   Potato Croquettes . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 195    " Roses . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 195   Potatoes for Breakfast . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 195   Potato Puff . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 195   Potatoes, Shoo-fly . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 195   Turnips . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 195    " in Sauce . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 196   Parsnips Saut&#233;d . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 196   Parsnip Fritters . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 196   Oyster-plant Fritters . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 197   Oyster-plants Stewed . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 197   Carrots . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 197   Beets . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 197   Cauliflower, with White Sauce .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 197   Cauliflowers, with Cheese . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 198   Asparagus . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 198   Pease . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 199   PAGE  Spinach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 199   Tomatoes, Stewed . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 200    " with Mayonnaise Sauce . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 226    " Stuffed and Baked . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 200   Onions . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 201    " with Cream . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 201   String-beans . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 201    " in Salad . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 226   Lima Beans . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 201    " " with Cream . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 202   Celery, Fried . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 202   Egg-plant . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 202   Cabbage, to Boil . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 202    " Stewed . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 203   Corn Boiled on the Cob . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 203    " Mock Oysters . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 203    " Custard, to be served as a
Vegetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 203    " Pudding for Tea . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 204    " Grated, Saut&#233;d . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 204   Cranberries, to Cook . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 204   Artichokes . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 204   Apples, Fried, for Breakfast .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 204   A Rice Dish (Risotto &#224;
la Millanaise) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 204   Another Rice Dish . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 205   Mushrooms in Crust
(Cro&#251;te aux Champignons) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . 
 205   Flaxseed for a Centre-piece . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 205    CASSEROLES . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 205    SHELLS, OR
COQUILLES.   Chickens in Shells . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 206   Oysters " " . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 207    Fish " " . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 207   Lobsters or Shrimps in Shells .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 207   Mushrooms in Shells . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 207    POTTING.   Ham, Potted . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 208   Tongue, " . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 208   Beef, " . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 208   Birds, Potted . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 208   Fish, " . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 209   Chicken, Tongue, or Ham, Potted
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 209    MACARONI.   Macaroni, with Cheese . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 209    " and Welsh Rare-bit . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 210    " with Sweet-breads . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 210   Macaroni, with Tomato-sauce . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 210    " au Gratin . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 211   Crackers, with Cheese . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 211    EGGS.  PAGE  Eggs, Boiled . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 212    " Poached . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 212    " " on Anchovy Toast . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 213    " Stuffed (No. 1) . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 213    " " (No. 2) . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 213    " " with Cheese . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 213    Omelets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 214   Omelet, Plain .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 214    " with
Tomatoes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 215    " " Greene
Pease . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 216    " " Ham . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 216    " " Mushrooms
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 216   PAGE  Omelet, with Shrimps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 216    " " Oysters .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 216    " " Cheese
(Fondue) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 216    " " " and
Macaroni . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 217    "
Souffl&#233;, Fried . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . 
 217    " Sweet . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 217    " with Rum . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 218    "
Souffl&#233; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . 
 218    " with
Cauliflowers, Asparagus Points, or other Vegetables . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 219    SALADS.   Sauce Mayonnaise . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 220    " &#224; la Ravingote . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 221    " Mayonnaise (red) . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 222   French Dressing . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 222    Combinations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 223   Lettuce . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 223   Potato Salad .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 224   Cold Slaw . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 224   Salad of
Vegetables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . 
 225   Mayonnaise of
Cauliflower . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 225    " of Tomatoes
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 226   String-beans in Salad . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 226   Chicken Salad (No. 1) . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 227    " " (No. 2) . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 228   Mayonnaise of Salmon . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 228   Salad &#224; la Filley . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 228    FRITTERS.   Fritter Batter, French (No. 1) . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 229    " " (No. 2) . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 229   Fritters-Pine-apple, Apple
Preserve, or Peach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 229   Fritters, Oyster or Clam (No.
1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 230    " Clam (No. 2) . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 230    " Kentish . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 230   Fried Cream (Cr&#232;me
Frite) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 230   Fritters-Peach, Apricot, or
Apple . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 231   Fritters, Bread . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 231    " Pork . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 164    " Corn . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 232    " Apple . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 232    PASTRY.   Puff Paste . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 233    " " Car&#234;me's Receipt for
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 234   To make the Pies . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 236   Pie Paste of Lard and Butter .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 236   A Common Paste . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 236   An Apple-pie . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 236    " " (Plain) . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 237   Fruit and Berry Pies, or Tarts
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 237   Pie, Lemon (No. 1) . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 237    " " (No. 2) . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 238    " Orange . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 238   Pie, Pumpkin (No. 1) . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 238    " " (No. 2) . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 239    " Mince (No. 1) . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 239    " " (No. 2) . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 239    " Potato . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 240    " Pine-apple . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 240    " Cheese . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 240   Small Vols-au-vent, or
Patty-cases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 241   Oysters for Vols-au-vent,
Scallop-shells, or served on Buttered Toast for Breakfast (No. 1) . . . 
 241    PAGE  Oysters for Vols-au-vent, Scallop-shells, or
served on Buttered Toast for Breakfast (No. 2) . . . 
 242   Vols-au-vent of Oysters (No. 3)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 242    " of Sweet-breads . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 242    " of Chickens, Veal, Game,
Shrimps, Salmon, Mushrooms, etc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 243   PAGE  Vols-au-vent, with Strawberries, Raspberries,
etc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 243    " with Strawberries, etc. . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 243   Lemon Paste . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 244   Mince-meat Patties . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 244   Cream Rissoles (Rissoles
&#224; la Cr&#232;me) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . 244    CANNING.   To Can Tomatoes . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 245    " Peaches . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 246    " String-beans . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 246    " Okra and Tomatoes . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 246    " Raspberries . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 247   To Can Greengages . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 247    " Corn . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 247    " Succotash . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 247    " Corn and Tomatoes . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 247    PRESERVES,
MARMALADES, AND COMPOTES.   Preserves, Sirup for . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 249    " Citron . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 250    " Quince . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 250    " Tomato . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 251    " Grape . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 251    " Apple Ginger . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 251   Candled Fruits . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 252    Marmalades  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 252   Marmalade,
Quince . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 
 252    " Peach . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 252    " Orange . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 253   Jam, Raspberry . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 253   Jam, Greengage . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 253   Brandy Peaches . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 253   To Jelly Fruits . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 254   Jelly, Currant (No. 1) . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 254    " " (No. 2) . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 255    " " (Mrs. Walworth's) . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 256    Compotes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 256   Compotes, Sirup
for . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 256   Compote of
Peaches and Apricots . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 
 257   Compote of
Apples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 
 257    " a Beautiful
Stuffed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 257    PICKLES AND
CATCHUPS.   Pickles, for Country Use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 257   Pickle, Indian . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 258    " Chowchow . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 258   To Pickle Cauliflowers . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 259   Pickled Walnuts . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 259    " Green Tomatoes and Onions .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 259    " Onions . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 260   Pickled Bell-peppers . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 260   Pickles, Ripe Cucumber . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 260   Sweet Pickled Peaches . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 260   Strawberry Pickle . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 261   Catchup, Tomato (No. 1) . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 261    " " (No. 2) . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 261    " Gooseberry . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 261    " Cucumber . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 262    CHEESE.   Welsh Rare-bit . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 264   Cottage Cheese . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 265   Ramekins . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 265   Ramekins, with Ale (Warne) . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 265    " Pastry (Warne) . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 266    SWEET SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS.  PAGE  Sauce, Butter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 266   Sauces, Sirup . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 266   Sauce, a Plain and Cheap . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 266    " Same, Richer . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 267    " Whipped-cream . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 267   Sauces, Fruit . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 267   PAGE  Sauce, Strawberry (for Baked Puddings) . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 268   Boiled Custard Sauce . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 268   A Good Sauce for Puddings . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 268   Sabyllon . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 268   Caramel Sauce . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 269    PUDDINGS AND
CUSTARDS.   Plum-pudding, with Brandy or Rum (Gouff&#233;) . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 269    " (No. 2) . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 270   Pudding with Remains of
Plum-pudding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 270    " Plainer Fruit . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 270    " Suet . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 271    " Prune . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 271    " Eve's . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 271    " a Spiced Apple . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 271    " Cottage . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 272    " Minute . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 272    " Nantucket Berry . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272    " Gelatine . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 272    " Tapioca . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 273   Tapioca Cream . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 273   Pudding, Cabinet . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 273   Puddings, Batter, Baked . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 274   Pudding, Roly-poly, Boiled . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 274   Berry Rolls, Baked . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 274   Pudding, Swedish . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 274    " Cherry . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 275   Pudding, a Corn-starch . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 275    " Cocoa-nut . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 275    " Chocolate . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 276   Puddings, Cocoa-nut, in Paper
Cases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 276   Egg Souffl&#233;, in Paper
Cases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 277   Pudding, Snow . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 277   Custard, Boiled (No. 1) . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 277    " " (No. 2) . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 278   Apple M&#233;ringue . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 278   Baked Apples . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 278   Friar's Omelet . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 279   Floating Islands . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 279   Pudding, Tipsy . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 279    " Lemon . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 280   Blanc-mange . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 280   Pudding, Corn-starch . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 280    " Bread . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 281    " Bread-and butter . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 282    " Bread, Fried . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 282    " Indian-corn . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 282    BAVARIAN
CREAMS, ETC.   Bavarian Cream, Vanilla . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 283    " " Chocolate . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 283    " " Strawberry . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 283    " " Almond . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 283    " " Peaches . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 284   Bavarian Cream, Pine-apple . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 284    " " Coffee . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 284   Charlotte-russe . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 285   Ambrosia . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 286    DESSERTS OF
RICE.   Rice, to Boil . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 286   Rice-pudding . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 286   Rice-cones . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 287   Rice-cake, with Peaches . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 287   Ground Rice-pudding, with
Chocolate Sauce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 287   Rice-cake, with Pine-apple . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 287   Orange Snow-balls . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 288   Apple " . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 288   Rice Souffl&#233; . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 288    " Croquettes . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 289    " Pancakes, with Preserves . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 289    WINE JELLIES  PAGE  Jelly,
Wine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . 
 290    " Orange (molded with Quarters
of Oranges) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 291    " Lemon . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 291   Macedoine of Fruits . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 292   PAGE  Jellies, Fancy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 292   What to do with Parts of Jelly
left over in Winter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 293   Jelly, Calf's-foot . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 293    " Whipped, with Fruits . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 294    CAKE.   Cake, Sponge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 295    " White . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 295   Jumbles . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 296    " Almond . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 296   Cake, Cocoa-nut . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 296    " Fruit . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 297    " English Pound . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 297    " Boston cream . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 297   Crullers . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 298   Doughnuts . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 298   Bread-cake . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 298   Gingerbread (No. 1) . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 298    " (No. 2) . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 299   Cake, Chocolate . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 299    " Mountain . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 299   Cream Cake or Pie . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 300   Sponge Jelly-cake . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 300   Cocoa-nut Cones . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 300   Croquante Cake . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 301   To Blanch Almonds . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 301   Rebecca Cake . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 301   Ginger-snaps . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 301   Plain Cookies . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 301   Almond Macaroons . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 302   Lady's-fingers . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 302   M&#233;ringues &#224; la
Cr&#232;me . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . 
 302   German Cake . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 303   Ranaque Buns . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 304   Frosting . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 304   Boiled Icing . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 305    CANDIES.   Caramels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 305   Candy, White-sugar . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 305   Candy, Vinegar . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 306    ICES.   Cream, Frozen Whipped . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 307   Ice-cream, Vanilla . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 307   Cream, Delmonico Vanilla . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 307   Ice-cream, Chocolate . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 308   To Make a Mold of Chocolate and
Vanilla Creams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 308   Ice-cream, Strawberry . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 308   Cream, Napolitaine . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 309   Ice-cream, Chocolate Fruit . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 309   Frozen Fruit Custard . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 309   Ice-cream, German Steamer,
Baked . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 310   Pine-apple Ice-cream Pudding .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 310   Iced Rice-pudding . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 311   Biscuit Glac&#233;s, in Small
Cases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 312    " " (Francatelli) . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 312   Nesselrode Pudding
(Car&#234;me's Receipt) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . 
 312   Iced Pudding . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 313   Tutti Frutti . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 313   Fresh Peaches Half Frozen . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 314   Peaches and Cream Frozen . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 314   Ice, Lemon . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 314    " Currant . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 314    COOKERY FOR
THE SICK.    Receipts for the Sick-room 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 319   Tea . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 319   Beef Tea, or
Essence of Beef . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 319   Another Beef
Tea (for Convalescents) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 320   Beef Juice . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 320    PAGE  Chicken Broth . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 320    " Custard . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 320    " Panada . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 320   Mold of Chicken
Jelly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 321   Chicken and
Ceylon Jelly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 
 321   Mutton Broth .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 321   Veal and Sago
Broth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 321   Beef and
Tapioca Broth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . 
 322   How to Prepare
an Uncooked Egg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 322   Tapioca Jelly .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 322   Sea-moss
Blanc-mange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . 
 323   Arrowroot Jelly
or Blanc-mange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 323   Corn-starch and
Rice Puddings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 323   Rice Jelly . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 323   Rice-water for
Drink . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 324   Jelly and Ice
(for Fever Patients) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 324   Parched Rice .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 324   PAGE  Milk Porridge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 324   Beef Sandwich .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 324   Prepared Flour
for Summer Complaints . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 325   Milk Toast . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 325   Panada . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 325   Ash-cake . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 326   Milk Punch . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 326   Egg-and-milk
Punch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 326   Herb Teas . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 327   Boneset for a
Cough or Cold . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 327   Botanic Cough
Sirup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 327    Arrangement
of Dished for Invalids  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . 
 328   Beefsteak . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 328   Mutton-chop . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 329   Breast of
Chicken . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 
 329   Venison Steak .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 329   To Prepare a
Bird . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 330    INVALID'S BILLS OF FARE .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 330   PREPARED FOOD FOR INVALIDS, ETC
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 331    SOME DISHES
FOR BABY.   Pap . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 335   Wheat-flour and Corn-meal Gruel
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 335   Roasted Rice . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 335   Corn-meal Gruel . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 336    Food for
Infants with Weak Digestive Organs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 
 336   Oatmeal Gruel
(No. 1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 336   Beef (No. 2) .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 336    HOW TO SERVE
FRUITS.   Strawberries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 336   Mixed Fruits . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 337   Water-melons . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 337   Cantaloupe Melons . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 337   Currants . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 338   Currants or other Fruits Iced .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 338   How they eat Oranges in Havana
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 338   Fresh Peaches . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 338   Pine-apples . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 338    BEVERAGES.   Punch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 339   Milk Punch . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 339   Roman Punch . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 340   Claret Punch . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 340   Eggnog . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 340   Sherry, Claret, or Catawba
Cobblers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 341   Lemonade . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 341   Tom and Jerry . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 341   Mint-julep . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 341   Milk Punch and Egg-and-milk
Punch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 341   Blackberry Cordial . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 341   Currant Wine . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 342   Raspberry Vinegar . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  343   
  SUITABLE COMBINATION OF
DISHES.  PAGE  Soup . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 342   Fish . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 343   Beef . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 343   Corned Beef . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 343   Turkeys . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 343   Chickens . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 344   Lamb . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 344   Pork . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 344   PAGE  Mutton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 344   Veal . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 344   Roast Goose . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 344   Game . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 344   Cheese . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 345   Sweet-breads . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 345   Roman Punch . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 345   Cantaloupe Melons . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 345    SERVING OF
WINES.   Prepare Temperature in which Wines should be Served . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 347   Treatment of Wines . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 347   Choice of Brands . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 347   Bill-of-fare Table . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 348    TO PREPARE COMPANY DINNERS
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 349    ENGLISH AND FRENCH
GLOSSARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 350   
 THE END.   
  VALUABLE AND
INTERESTING WORKS FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE LIBRARIES PUBLISHED BY
HARPER &#38; BROTHERS, NEW YORK. 
   A small illustration of a hand pointing to the
right.   For a full List of Books
suitable for Libraries, see HARPER &#38; BROTHERS' TRADE-LIST and CATALOGUE,
which may be had gratuitously on application to the Publishers personally, or
by letter enclosing Nine Cents in Postage Stamps.  
   A small illustration of a hand pointing to the
right.   HARPER &#38; BROTHERS
will send their publications by mail, postage prepaid [excepting School and
College Text-Books and certain books whose weight would exclude them from the
mail], on receipt of the price. HARPER &#38; BROTHERS' School and College
Text-Books marked in this list with an asterisk (*) will be send by mail on
receipt of the advertised price and one-sixth additional for
postage.  
 FIRST CENTURY OF THE REPUBLIC. A Review of American Progress. 8vo, Cloth, $5
00; Sheep, $5 50; Half Morocco, $7 25. 
 Contents. 
 Introduction: I. Colonial Progress. By EUGENE LAWRENCE.--II.
Mechanical Progress. By EDWARD H. KNIGHT.--III. Progress in Manufacture. By the
Hon. DAVID A. WELLS--IV. Agricultural Progress. By Professor WILLIAM H.
BREWER.--V. The Development of our Mineral Resources. By Professor T. STERRY
HUNT.--VI. Commercial Development. By EDWARD ATKINSON.--VII. Growth and
Distribution of Population. By the Hon. FRANCIS A. WALKER.--VIII. Monetary
Development. By Professor WILLIAM G. SUMNER.--IX. The Experiment of the Union,
with its Preparations. By T. D. WOOLSEY, D.D., LL.D.--X. Educational Progress.
By EUGENE LAWRENOE.--XI. Scientific Progress: 1. The Exact Sciences. By F. A.
P. BARNARD, D.D., LL.D. 2. Natural Science. By Professor THEODORE GILL.--XII. A
Century of American Literature. By EDWIN P. WHIPPLE.--XIII. Progress of the
Fine Arts. By S. S. CONANT.--XIV. Medical and Sanitary Progress. By AUSTIN
FLINT, M.D.--XV. American Jurisprudence. By BENJAMIN VAUGHAN ABBOTT.--XVI.
Humanitarian Progress. By CHARLES L.BRACE.--XVII. Religious Development. By the
Rev. JOHN F. HURST, D.D. 
 MOTLEY'S DUTCH REPUBLIC. The Rise of the Dutch Republic. A History. By JOHN
LOTHROP MOTLEY, LL.D., D.C.L. With a Portrait of William of Orange. 3 vols.,
8vo, Cloth, $10 50; Sheep, $12 00; Half Calf, $17 25. 
 MONTLEY'S UNITED NETHERLANDS. History of the United Netherlands: from the
Death of William the Silent to the Twelve Year's Truce--1609. With a full View
of the English-Dutch Struggle against Spain, and of the Origin and Destruction
of the Spanish Armada. By JOHN LOTHROP, MOTLEY, LL.D., D.C.L. Portraits. 4
vols., 8vo, Cloth, $14 00; Sheep, $16 00; Half Calf, $23 00. 
 MOTLEY'S LIFE AND DEATH OF JOHN OF BARNEVELD. The Life and Death of John of
Barneveld, Advocate of Holland: with a View of the Primary Causes and Movements
of "The Thirty-years' War." By JOHN LOTHROP MOTLEY, LL.D., D.C.L. Illustrated.
In 2 vols., 8vo, Cloth, $7 00; Sheep, $8 00; Half Calf, $11 50. 
 
 *HAYDN'S DICTIONARY OF DATES, relating to all Ages and Nations. For
Universal Reference. Edited by BENJAMIN VINCENT, Assistant Secretary and Keeper
of the Library of the Royal Institution of Great Britain; and Revised for the
Use of American Readers. 8vo, Cloth, $3 00; Sheep, $3 37. 
 HILDRETH'S UNITED STATES. History of the United States. FIRST SERIES: From
the Discovery of the Continent to the Organization of the Government under the
Federal Constitution. SECOND SERIES: From the Adoption of the Federal
Constitution to the End of the Sixteenth Congress. By RICHARD HILDRETH. 6
vols., 8vo, Cloth, $18 00; Sheep, $21 00; Half Calf, $31 50. 
 HUME'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND. The History of England, from the Invasion of
Julius C&#230;sar to the Abdication of James II., 1688. By DAVID HUME. 6
vols., 12mo, Cloth, $5 40; Sheep, $7 80; Half Calf. $15 90. 
 HUDSON'S HISTORY OF JOURNALISM. Journalism in the United States, from 1690
to 1872. By FREDERIC HUDSON. 8vo, Cloth, $5 00; Half Calf, $7 25. 
 JEFFERSON'S DOMESTIC LIFE. The Domestic Life of Thomas Jefferson: compiled
from Family Letters and Reminiscences, by his Great-granddaughter, SARAH N.
RANDOLPH. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, Cloth, $2 50. 
 JOHNSON'S COMPLETE WORKS. The Works of Samuel Johnson, LL.D. With an Essay
on his Life and Genius, by ARTHUR MURPHY, Esq. 2 vols., 8vo, Cloth, $4 00;
Sheep, $5 00; Half Calf, $8 50. 
 KINGLAKE'S CRIMEAN WAR. The Invasion of the Crimea: its Origin, and an
Account of its Progress down to the Death of Lord Raglan. By ALEXANDER WILLIAM
KINGLAKE. With Maps and Plans. Three Volumes now ready. 12mo, Cloth, $2 00 per
vol.; Half Calf, $3 75 per vol. 
 LAMB'S COMPLETE WORKS. The Works of Charles Lamb. Comprising his Letters,
Poems, Essays of Elia, Essays upon Shakespeare, Hogarth, &#38;c., and a Sketch
of his Life, with the Final Memorials, by T. NOON TALFOURD. With Portrait. 2
vols., 12mo, Cloth, $3 00; Half Calf, $6 50. 
 LAWRENCE'S HISTORICAL STUDIES. Historical Studies. By EUGENE LAWRENCE.
Containing the following Essays: The Bishops of Rome.--Leo and Luther.--Loyola
and the Jesuits.--Ecumenical Councils.--The Vaudois.--The Huguenots.--The
Church of Jerusalem.--Dominic and the Inquisition.--The Conquest of
Ireland.--The Greek Church. 8vo, Cloth, uncut edges and gilt tops, $3 00. 
 MYERS'S REMAINS OF LOST EMPIRES. Remains of Lost Empires: Sketches of the
Ruins of Palmyra, Nineveh, Babylon, and Persepolis, with some Notes on India
and the Cashmerian Himalayas. By P. V. N. MYERS. Illustrated. 8vo, Cloth, $3
50.  
 LOSSING'S FIELD-BOOK OF THE REVOLUTION. Pictorial Field-Book of the
Revolution: or, Illustrations by Pen and Pencil of the History, Biography,
Scenery, Relics, and Traditions of the War for Independence. By BENSON J.
LOSSING. 2 vos., 8vo, Cloth, $14 00: Sheep or Roan, $15 00; Half Calf, $18
00. 
 LOSSING'S FIELD-BOOK OF THE WAR OF 1812. Pictorial Field-Book of the War of
1812: or, Illustrations by Pen and Pencil of the History, Biography, Scenery,
Relics, and Traditions of the last War for American Independence. By BENSON J.
LOSSING. With several hundred Engravings on Wood by Lossing and Barritt,
chiefly from Original Sketches by the Author. 1088 pages, 8vo, Cloth, $7 00;
Sheep or Roan, $8 50; Half Calf, $10 00. 
 MACAULAY'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND. The History of England from the Accession of
James II. By THOMAS BABINGTON MACAULAY. 5 vols., 8vo, Cloth, $10 00; Sheep, $12
50; Half Calf, $21 25; 12mo, Cloth, $4 50; Sheep, $6 50; Half Calf, $13 25. 
 MACAULAY'S LIFE AND LETTERS. The Life and Letters of Lord Macaulay. By his
Nephew, G. OTTO TREVELYAN, M.P. With Portrait on Steel. Complete in 2 vols.,
8vo, Cloth, uncut edges and gilt tops, $5 00; Sheep, $6 00; Half Calf, $9 50.
Popular Edition, 2 vols. in one, 12mo, Cloth, $1 75. 
 FORSTER'S LIFE OF DEAN SWIFT. The Early Life of Jonathan Swift (1667-1771).
By JOHN FORSTER. With Portrait. 8vo, Cloth, $2 50. 
 *GREEN'S SHORT HISTORY OF THE ENGLISH PEOPLE. A Short History of the English
People. By J. R. GREEN, M.A., Examiner in the School of Modern History, Oxford.
With Tables and Colored Maps. 8vo, Cloth, $1 30. 
 HALLAM'S MIDDLE AGES. View of the State of Europe during the Middle Ages. By
HENRY HALLAM. 8vo, Cloth, $2 00; Sheep, $2 50; Half Calf, $4 25. 
 HALLAM'S CONSTITUTIOANL HISTORY OF ENGLAND. The Constitutional History of
England, from the Accession of Henry VII. to the Death of George II. By HENRY
HALLAM. 8vo, Cloth, $2 00; Sheep, $2 50; Half Calf, $4 25. 
 HALLAM'S LITERATURE. Introduction to the Literature of Europe during the
Fifteenth, Sixteenth, and Seventeenth Centuries. By HENRY HALLAM. 2 vols., 8vo,
Cloth, $4 00; Sheep, %5 00; Half Calf, $8 50. 
 SCHWEINFURTH'S HEART OF AFRICA. The Heart of Africa. Three Years' Travels
and Adventures in the Unexplored Regions of the Centre of Africa. From 1868 to
1871. By Dr. GEORGE SCHWEINFURTH. Translated by ELLEN E. FREWER. With an
Introduction by WINWOOD READE. Illustrated by about 130 Woodcuts from Drawings
made by the Author, and with two Maps. 2 vols., 8vo, Cloth, $8 00. 
 
 M'CLINTOCK &#38; STRONG'S CYCLOP&#230;DIA. Cyclop&#230;dia of Biblical,
Theological, and Ecclesiastical Literature. Prepared by the Rev. JOHN
M'CLINTOCK, D.D., and JAMES STRONG, S.T.D. 
 7 vols. now ready.  Royal 8vo. Price per vol., Cloth,
$5 00; Sheep, $6 00; Half Morocco, $8 00. 
 MOHAMMED AND MOHAMMEDANISM: Lectures Delivered at the Royal Institution of
Great Britain in February and March, 1874. By R. BOSWORTH SMITH, M.A.,
Assistant Master in Harrow School; late Fellow of Trinity College, Oxford. With
an Appendix containing Emanuel Deutsch's Article on "Islam." 12mo, Cloth, $1
50. 
 MOSHEIM'S ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY. Ancient and Modern; in which the Rise,
Progress, and Variation of Church Power are considered in their Connection with
the State of Learning and Philosophy, and the Political History of Europe
during that Period. Translated, with Notes, &#38;c., by A. MACLAINE, D.D.
Continued to 1826, by C. COOTE, LL.D. 2 vols, 8vo, Cloth, $4 00; Sheep, $5 00;
Half Calf, $8 50. 
 HARPER'S NEW CLASSICAL LIBRARY. Literal Translations. 
 The following Volumes are now ready. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50
each. 
 C&#230;ASAR.--VIRGH.--SALLUST.--HORACE.--CICERO'S
ORATIONS.--CICERO'S OFFICES, &#38;c.--CICERO ON ORATORY AND ORATORS.--TACITUS
(2 vols.).--TERENCE.--SOPHOCLES.--JUVENAL.--XENOPHON.--HOMER'S ILIAD.--HOMER'S
ODYSSEY.--HERODOTUS.--DEMOSTHENES (2
vols.).--THUCYDIDES.--&#230;SCHYLUS.--EURIPIDES (2 vols.).--LIVY (2
vols.).--PLATO [Select Dialogues]. 
 LIVINGSTONE'S SOUTH AFRICA. Missionary Travels and Researches in South
Africa: including a Sketch of Sixteen Years' Residence in the Interior of
Africa, and a Journey from the Cape of Good Hope to Loanda on the West Coast;
thence across the Continent, down the River Zambesi, to the Eastern Ocean. By
DAVID LIVINGSTONE, LL.D., D.C.L. With Portrait, Maps, and Illustrations. 8vo,
Cloth, $4 50; Sheep, $5 00; Half Calf, $6 75. 
 LIVINGSTONE'S ZAMBESI. Narrative of an Expedition to the Zambesi and its
Tributaries, and of the Discovery of the Lakes Shirwa and Nyassa, 1858--1864.
By DAVID and CHARLES LIVINGSTONE. With Map and Illustrations. 8vo, Cloth, $5
00; Sheep, $5 50; Half Calf, $7 25. 
 LIVINGSTONE'S LAST JOURNALS. The Last Journals of David Livingstone, in
Central Africa, from 1865 to his Death. Continued by a Narrative of his Last
Moments and Sufferings, obtained from his Faithful Servants Chuma and Susi. By
HORACE WALLER, F.R.G.S., Rector of Twywell, Northampton. With Portrait, Maps,
and Illustrations. 8vo, Cloth, $5 00; Sheep, $5 50; Half Calf, $7 25. Cheap
Popular Edition, 8vo, Cloth, with Map and Illustrations, $2 50. 
 GROTE'S HISTORY OF GREECE. 12 vols., 12mo, Cloth, $18 00; Sheep, $22 80;
Half Calf, $39 00.  
 RECLUS'S EARTH. The Earth: a Descriptive History of the Phenomena of the
Life of the Globe. By &#233;LIS&#233;E RECLUS. With 234 Maps and
Illustrations, and 23 Page Maps printed in Colors. 8vo, Cloth, $5 00; Half
Calf, $7 25. 
 RECLUS'S OCEAN. The Ocean, Atmosphere, and Life. Being the Second Series of
a Descriptive History of the Life of the Globe. By &#233;LIS&#233;E RECLUS.
Profusely Illustrated with 250 Maps or Figures, and 27 Maps printed in Colors.
8vo, Cloth, $6 00; Half Calf, $8 25. 
 NORDOHOFF'S COMMUNISTIC SOCIETIES OF THE UNITED STATES. The Communistic
Societies of the United States, from Personal Visit and Observation; including
Detailed Accounts of the Economists, Zoarties, Shakers, the Amana, Oneida,
Bethel, Aurora, Icarian, and other existing Societies. With Particulars of
their Religious Creeds and Practices, their Social Theories and Life, Numbers,
Industries, and Present Condition. By CHARLES NORDHOFF. Illustrations. 8vo,
Cloth, &#38;4 00. 
 NORDHOFF'S CALIFORNIA. California: for Health, Pleasure, and Residence. A
Book for Travellers and Settlers. Illustrated. 8vo, Cloth, $2 50. 
 NORDHOFF'S NORTHERN CALIFORNIA, OREGON, AND THE SANDWICH ISLANDS. Northern
California, Oregon, and the Sandwich Islands. By CHARLES NORDHOFF. Illustrated.
8vo, Cloth, $2 50. 
 PARTON'S CARICATURE. Caricature and Other Comic Art, in All Times and Many
Lands. By JAMES PARTON. With 203 Illustrations. 8vo, Cloth. ( Nearly Ready. ) 
 *RAWLINSON'S MANUAL OF ANCIENT HISTORY. A Manual of Ancient History, from
the Earliest Times to the Fall of the Western Empire. Comprising the History of
Chald&#230;a, Assyria, Media, Babylonia, Lydia, Ph&#x0153;nicia, Syria,
Jud&#230;a, Egypt, Carthage, Persia, Greece, Macedonia, Parthia, and Rome. By
GEORGE RAWLINSON, M.A., Camden Professor of Ancient History in the University
of Oxford. 12mo, Cloth, $1 25. 
 NICHOLS'S ART EDUCATION. Art Education applied to Industry. By GEORGE WARD
NICHOLS, Author of "The Story of the Great March." Illustrated. 8vo, Cloth, $4
00. 
 BAKER'S ISMAIL&#239;A. Ismail&#239;a: a Narrative of the Expedition to
Central Africa for the Suppression of the Slave-trade, organized by Ismail,
Khedive of Egypt. By Sir SAMUEL WHITE BAKER, PASHA, F.R.S., F.R.G.S. With Maps,
Portraits, and Illustrations. 8vo, Cloth, $5 00: Half Calf, $7 25. 
 BOSWELL'S JOHNSON. The Life of Samuel Johnson, LL.D., including a Journal of
a Tour to the Hebrides. By JAMES BOSWELL, Esq. Edited by JOHN WILSON CROKER,
LL.D., F.R.S. With a Portrait of Boswell. 2 vols., 8vo, Cloth, $4 00; Sheep, $5
00; Half Calf, $8 50.  
 VAN-LENNEP'S BIBLE LANDS. Bible Lands: their Modern Customs and Manners
Illustrative of Scripture. By the Rev. Henry J. VAN-LENNEP, D.D. Illustrated
with upward of 350 Wood Engravings and two Colored Maps. 838 pp., 8vo, Cloth,
$5 00; Sheep, $6 00; Half Morocco, $8 00. 
 VINCENT'S LAND OF THE WHITE ELEPHANT. The Land of the White Elephant: Sights
and Scenes in Southeastern Asia. A Personal Narrative of Travel and Adventure
in Farther India, embracing the Countries of Burma, Siam, Cambodia, and
Cochin-China (1871-2). By FRANK VINCENT, Jr. Illustrated with Maps, Plans, and
Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, Cloth, $3 50. 
 SHAKSPEARE. The Dramatic Works of William Shakespeare. With Corrections and
Notes. Engravings. 6 vols., 12mo, Cloth, $9 00. 2 vols., 8vo, Cloth $4 00;
Sheep, $5 00. In one vol., 8vo, Sheep, $4 00. 
 SMILES'S HISTORY OF THE HUGUENOTS. The Huguenots: their Settlements,
Churches, and Industries in England and Ireland. By SAMUEL SMILES. With an
Appendix relating to the Huguenots in America. Crown 8vo, Cloth, $2 00. 
 SMILES'S HUGUENOTS AFTER THE REVOCATION. The Huguenots in France after the
Revocation of the Edict of Nantes; with a Visit to the Country of the Vaudois.
By SAMUEL SMILES. Crown 8vo, Cloth, $2 00. 
 SMILES'S LIFE OF THE STEPHENSONS. The Life of George Stephenson, and of his
Son, Robert Stephenson; comprising, also, a History of the Invention and
Introduction of the Railway Locomotive. By SAMULE SMILES. With Steel Portraits
and numerous Illustrations. 8vo, Cloth, $3 00. 
 SQUIER'S PERU. Peru: Incidents of Travel and Exploration in the Land of the
Incas. By E. GEORGE SQUIRE, M.A., F.S.A., late U.S. Commissioner to Peru,
Author of "Nicaragua," "Ancient Monuments of Mississippi Valley," &#38;c.,
&#38;c. With Illustrations. 8vo, Cloth, $5 00. 
 STRICKLAND'S (Miss) QUEENS OF SCOTLAND. Lives of the Queens of Scotland and
English Princesses connected with the Regal Succession of Great Britain. By
AGNES STRICKLAND. 8 vols., 12mo, Cloth, $12 00; Half Calf, $26 00. 
 THE "CHALLENGER" EXPEDITION. The Atlantic: an Account of the General Results
of the Exploring Expedition of H.M.S. "Challenger." By Sir WYVILLE THOMSON,
K.C.B., F.R.S. With numerous Illustrations, Colored Maps, and Charts, from
Drawings by J. J. Wyld, engraved by J. D. Cooper, and Portrait of the Author,
engraved by C. H. Jeens. 2 vols., 8vo. ( In
Press. ) 
 BOURNE'S LIFE OF JOHN JOCKE. The Life of John Locke. By H. R. FOX BOURNE, 2
vols, 8vo, Cloth, uncut edges and gilt tops, 
 
 ALISONS'S HISTORY OF EUROPE. FIRST SERIES: From the Commencement of the
French Revolution, in 1789, to the Restoration of the Bourbons in 1815. [In
addition to the Notes on Chapter LXXVI., which correct the errors of the
original work concerning the United States, a copious Analytical Index has been
appended to this American Edition] SECOND SERIES: From the Fall of Napoleon, in
1815, to the Accession of Louis Napoleon, in 1852. 8 vols., 8vo, Cloth, $16 00;
Sheep, $20 00; Half Calf, $34 00. 
 WALLACE'S GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF ANIMALS. The Geographical
Distribution of Animals. With a Study of the Relations of Living and Extinct
Faunas as Elucidating the Past Changes of the Earth's Surface. By ALFRED RUSSEL
WALLACE. With Maps and Illustrations. In 2 vols., 8vo, Cloth, $10 00. 
 WALLACE'S MALAY ARCHIPELAGO. The Malay Archipelago: the Land of the
Orang-Utan and the Bird of Paradise. A Narrative of Travel, 1854-1862. With
Studies of Man and Nature. By ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE. With Ten Maps and
Fifty-one Elegant Illustrations. Crown 8vo, Cloth, $2 50. 
 GIBBON'S ROME. The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire. By
EDWARD GIBBON. With Notes by Rev. H. H. HILMAN and M. GUIZOT. With Index. 6
vols., 12mo, Cloth, $5 40; Sheep, $7 80; Half Calf, $15 90. 
 GRIFFIS'S JAPAN. The Mikado's Empire: Book I. History of Japan, from 660
B.C. to 1872 A.D. Book II. Personal Experiences, Observations, and Studies in
Japan, 1870-1874. BY WILLIAM ELLIOT GRIFFIS, A.M., late of the Imperial
University of {character set}, Japan. Copiously Illustrated. 8vo, Cloth, $4 00;
Half Calf, $6 25. 
 THOMPSONS'S PAPACY AND THE CIVIL POWER. The papacy and the Civil Power. By
the Hon. R. W. THOMPSON, Secretary of the U. S. Navy. Crown 8vo, Cloth, $3
00. 
 THE POETS AND POETRY OF SCOTLAND: from the Earliest to the Present Time.
Comprising Characteristic Selections from the Works of the more Noteworthy
Scottish Poets, with Biographical and Critical Notices. By JAMES GRANT WILSON.
With Portraits on Steel. 2 volumes, 8vo, Cloth, $10 00; Half Calf, $14 50; Full
Morocco, $18 00. 
 *THE STUDENT'S SERIES. With Maps and Illustrations. 12mo, Cloth. 
 FRANCE.--GIBBON.--GREECE.--HUME.--ROME (By LIDDELL).--OLD
TESTAMENT HISTORY.--NEW TESTAMENT HISTORY.--STRICKLAND'S QUEENS OF ENGLAND
(Abridged).--ANCIENT HISOTRY OF THE EAST.--HALLAM'S MIDDLE AGES.--HALLAM'S
CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY OF ENGLAND.--LYELL'S ELEMENTS OF GEOLOGY.--MERIVALE'S
GENERAL HISTORY OF ROME.--COX'S GENERAL HISTORY OF GREECE.--CLASSICAL
DICTIONARY. Price $1 25 per volume. 
 LEWIS'S HISTORY OF GERMANY. Price $1 50. 
 
 CARLYLE'S FREDERICK THE GREAT. History of Friedrich II., called Frederick
the Great. BY THOMAS CARLYLE. Portraits, Maps, Plans, &#38;c. 6 vols., 12mo,
Cloth, $12 00; Sheep, $14 40; Half Calf, $22 50. 
 THE REVISION OF THE ENGLISH VERSION OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. With an
Introduction by the Rev. P. SCHAFF, D.D. 618 pp., Crown 8vo, Cloth, $3 00. 
 This work embraces in one volume: 
 I. ON A FRESH REVISION OF THE ENGLISH NEW TESTAMENT. By J.
B. LIGHTFOOT, D.D., Canon of St. Paul's, and Hulsean Professor of Divinity,
Cambridge. Second Edition, Revised. 196 pp. 
 II. ON THE AUTHORIZED VERSION OF THE NEW TESTAMENT in
Connection with some Recent Proposals for its Revision. By RICHARD CHENEVIX
TRENCH, D.D., Archbishop of Dublin. 194 pp. 
 III. CONSIDERATIONS OF THE REVISION OF THE ENGLISH VERSION
OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By C. J. ELLICOTT, D.D., Bishop of Gloucester and
Bristol. 178 pp. 
 ADDISON'S COMPLETE WORKS. The Works of Joseph Addison, embracing the whole
of the 
 Spectator.  3 vols., 8vo, Cloth, $6 00; Sheep, $7 50;
Half Calf, $12 75. 
 ANNUAL RECORD OF SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY. The Annual Record of Science and
Industry. Edited by Professor SPENCER F. BAIRD, of the Smithsonian Institution,
with the Assistance of Eminent Men of Science. The Yearly Volumes for 1871,
1872, 1873, 1874, 1875, 1876 are ready. 12mo, Cloth, $2 00 per vol. 
 BROUGHAM'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY. Life and Times of Henry, Lord Brougham. Written by
Himself. 3 vols., 12mo, Cloth, $6 00. 
 BULWER'S HORACE. The Odes and Epodes of Horace. A Metrical Translation into
English. With Introduction and Commentaries. By LORD LYTTON. With Latin Text
from the Editions of Orelli, Macleane, and Yonge. 12mo, Cloth, $1 75. 
 BULWER'S KING ARTHUR. King Arthur. A Poem. By LORD LYTTON. 12mo, Cloth, $1
75. 
 BULWER'S PROSE WORKS. The Miscellaneous Prose Works of Edward Bulwer, Lord
Lytton. 2 vols., 12mo, Cloth, $3 50. Also, in uniform style, 
 Caxtoniana.  12mo, Cloth, $1 75. 
 DAVIS'S CARTHAGE. Carthage and her Remains: being an Account of the
Excavations and Researches on the Site of the Ph&#x0153;nician Metropolis in
Africa and other Adjacent Places. Conducted under the Auspices of Her Majesty's
Government. By Dr. N. DAVIS, F.R.G.S. Profusely Illustrated with Maps,
Woodcuts, Chromo-Lithographs, &#38;c. 8vo, Cloth, $4 00; Half Calf, $6
25.    
    
  The following text is a
newspaper clipping that was pasted to this page in the original
volume. 
 THE IDEAL LEMON PIE.--Several requests to republish this recipe having been
received, it is presented here with: 
 "I have at last 
 reduced  lemon pie to a science. Mine are 
 now  so delicious that 
 A. longs  for dinner time to come. This is my recipe: A.
prefers tarts so I take my  biscuit-cutter  and cut from
puff paste very thinly rolled around the edge I curl a narrow strip of the
paste, and bake these shells. While they are baking I prepare the following
filling, which 'is very fillin' at the price': I take my lemon and do not roll
it--cause why? it grates better when it is firm. After the yellow ring is all
grated into a bowl, I squeeze in the juice, and if any little cells go in I do
not say them nay, I then put in a cup of sugar and the yolk of one egg, stir
well together. Upon this I pour a large cup of cold water (no milk), into which
has been stirred a dessert-spoonful of corn starch. I put all into a saucepan
and stir until it is cooked into a rich, clear, straw-colored jelly. My shells
now being baked to look as much as possible as if they had come from 
 Rogers's,  I fill them, and from the white of the egg make a
meringue to softly cover each. I pop them into the oven one brief instant, and
then draw them out a rich 
 sunset  yellow, and, stepping upon 'Vevie' and the 
 cat  alternately. I bear them in triumph to the pantry to
cool. You will get this in the morning; make some for dinner and you will be
happy. N. B.--The 
 crust  being baked separately, it never soaks." 
 VANILLA CREAM WITH FRUIT SAUCE.-Make a nice custard with a pint of rich milk
and the yolks of five eggs, a 
 scant  cup of sugar and vanilla to taste. When this custard
thickens take it off the fire, and add, while still hot, half a box of gelatine
previously dissolved in cold water. Wet a mould, pour in the 
 cream,  and set it on ice. When set turn it out on a deep
dish, arrange a bunch of fine candied cherries on top, and pour around it a
sauce made of red cherries stewed, sweetened, strained and slightly thickened
with corn starch.      
   
 