 
 
 
 
 Presbyterian Cookbook. 
 The Ladies of the First Presbyterian Church, Dayton,
Ohio 
 Cookery, American. Cookery, Ohio. Community Cookbook, Ohio,
Dayton. 
 Soup, Fish, Oysters, Meats, Sauces and Catsups, Vegetables,
Salads, Puddings, Sauces, Custards, Creams, etc., Confectionery, Bread, Rolls
and Biscuit, Muffins, etc., Griddle Cakes, Fritters, etc., Cake, Layer Cakes,
Small Cakes, Pickles and Relishes, Canned Fruits and Vegetables, Drinks for
Family Use, Food for the Sick, Miscellaneous 
 Dayton, Ohio, Oliver Crook &#38; Co., Printers. 
 Electronic edition created by Digital &#38; Multimedia Center,
Michigan State University Libraries, East Lansing, Michigan,
2002-2003. 
 Supplementary material by Jan Longone, Anne-Marie Rachman, Peter
Berg, Yvonne Lockwood, and Val Berryman 
 1873 
 Text 
 xml-external-parsed-entity 
 gif 
 quicktime 
 http://digital.lib.msu.edu/cookbooks/presbyterian/pres.xml 
 OCLC 2872299 
 en 
 Digitized as part of "Feeding America: The Historic American
Cookbook Project." Michigan State University Libraries, East Lansing, Michigan,
2002-2003. http://digital.lib.msu.edu/cookbooks/ 
 United States/midwest/Ohio 
 Nineteenth century 
 The book digitized here was published in the United States before
1923 and is in the public domain according to U.S. copyright law. The digital
version and supplementary materials are made available for all educational
uses. 
 
 
  
 PRESBYTERIAN 
 COOK BOOK.  
   
  
 The two following recipes are noted as being handwritten although the
recipes are typed. 
 
 
 Lemon Jelly  2 lemons - 2 cups sugar  yolks 4 eggs -
boil setting  in boiling water - Then add  whites of eggs
well beaten   
 
 
 Jelly Pudding  1 pt bread crumbs - 1 qt milk  1 cup
sugar - yolks of 4 eggs well  beaten - the rind of a fresh
lemon  grated fine. butter size of an egg.  a little salt
- 1/2 teaspoon soda - Bake  till well done - Beat the whites to a
stiff  froth. add a teacup powdered sugar  the juice of a
lemon. Spread over  the pudding when done a cup of  jelly
(any kind) Then put the whites of  the eggs over and set in the
stove  to brown. Serve with rich sauce.    
   
  
 The following recipe is noted as being handwritten although the recipe
is typed. 
 
 
 Baked plum pudding  1 pt grated bread crumbs.  " "
raisins or dried cherries.  3/4 pt suet chopped fine &#38;
shredded.  1 pt. sugar - do - milk. 3 eggs  1/2 pt
chopped apples. 1 nutmeg  Put the milk on last. The  eggs
must be beaten very light  &#38; stirred into it with
enough  flour to make the mass stick together.  Bake 1/2
hour.  serve with French sauce    
   
   PRESBYTERIAN COOK BOOK, 
 COMPILED BY  THE
LADIES OF THE 
 First Presbyterian Church,  
 DAYTON, OHIO.  
 
  "He had not din'd:  The veins unfill'd,
our blood is cold, and then  We pout upon the morning, are
unapt  To give or to forgive; but when we have
stuff'd  These pipes and these conveyances of blood  With
wine and feeding, we have suppler souls  Than in our priest-like
fasts."  CORIOLANUS, V.I.    DAYTON: OLIVER CROOK &#38; CO.,
PRINTERS, 1873.  
  
 Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1873, by the
Ladies of the First Presbyterian Church, Dayton, Ohio, in the office of the
Librarian of Congress, at Washington.  
   
  
 
 FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH. Erected 1839. Taken down in
1867. CORNER SECOND AND LUDLOW STS., DAYTON, O. 
 An illustration of a church and steeple. 
  
  
 
 FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH. Erected 1867-8, CORNER SECOND AND
LUDLOW STS., DAYTON, O. 
 An illustration of a church with a very tall thin
spire. 
  
   
  
 PREFACE. 
 In March last, the Ladies Society of the First Presbyterian Church, of
Dayton, hastily compiled and published a "Cook Book," or a small collection of
recipes for plain household cooking. Five hundred copies were published, and,
notwithstanding the book contained some errors, and the arrangement was very
imperfect (necessarily so from the haste with which it was prepared for
publication), it met with such gratifying and unexpected success, that its
authors felt it to be their duty to revise and re-publish it. 
 The present book is much larger than its predecessor, and the recipes it
contains have been selected with great care. Many of them were sent voluntarily
by parties who were willing to hold themselves responsible for their
excellence, while others were solicited, often at the cost of much time and
pains--a corn bread here, a pudding there, a salad from some one else--from
ladies who had gained a reputation for preparing this or that particular
dish. 
 Our subject is an inexhaustable one, and this book does not venture into the
mystical realm of fancy cookery; but is a collection of safe and reliable
recipes for the preparation of plain food. 
 The matter of the book, we claim, is all right; for the manner of it, we beg
indulgence. The phraseology is often peculiar, and
may provoke a smile; but it must be remembered that the recipes were written by
ladies unaccustomed to writing for publication; and, in most cases, they have
been inserted precisely as written, and, whenever no objection was made, the
name of the author has been given. 
 Persons familiar with Dayton names, will recognize many who do not belong to
the Presbyterian sisterhood. We feel ourselves under great obligations to the
ladies who have assisted us, but we hope our book will prove so useful as to
amply repay them for their trouble. 
 DAYTON, OHIO, July 1, 1873. 
 "What is worth doing at all, is worth doing well."  
 
  
 
 SOUP. 
 A few points are essential in making good soup. Beef is the best meat for
the purpose, as it contains the most nourishment. A shank bone should be well
cracked (that the marrow may be extracted), put on to cook in cold water,
allowing a full quart for every pound of beef, and by very gradual heat come to
a slow simmer, which should be kept up five or six hours. Soup, on no account,
should be allowed to boil, except for the last fifteen minutes, to cook the
vegetables in finishing. For the first hour of simmering it should be
frequently skimmed. Salt, pepper and savory should be cooked in it from the
first; rice, tapioca, macaroni or dumplings added at the last, to thicken. If
vegetables are desired, they should be nicely sliced. Soup is much better to be
made and allowed to cool, and used the second day, as then all grease can be
removed. It should be strained before putting away. 
 
  BEEF SOUP. 
 Mrs. John G. Lowe. Put on a
 shin of beef  early in the morning. An hour before
dinner put in the
 vegetables -- corn, 
 tomatoes,   potatoes,  or any
other the season affords. Half an hour before dinner add  pearl
barley,   vermicelli, or dumplings,  as you
prefer. Season with  salt, 
 pepper  and  catsup,  to
taste. 
  
 
  BEAN SOUP. 
 Mrs. Axie Green. To a quart of
 beans  a teaspoonful of  soda. 
Cover well with  water,  and set them on to boil until
the hulls will easily slip off; throw them into  cold
water;  rub well with the hands; the hulls will rise to the top.
Drain carefully and repeat until the hulls are wholly removed. To a quart of
 beans,  two quarts of  water. 
Boil until the  beans  mash perfectly smooth. It seasons
the soup to boil a  piece of meat (mutton, beef or
pork)  with it.  If you have not meat, add
 butter  and  flour  rubbed
together.  Break into  tureen  well
 toasted bread,  pour over it the soup, and add plenty
of  salt  and  pepper.  
 
 
  CORN SOUP. 
 Mrs. S. B. Smith. Clean and scrape
twelve  ears of corn.  Boil the
 cobs  for fifteen or twenty minutes in one quart of
 water;  remove them and put in the
 corn.  Let it boil a short time, then add two quarts of
 rich milk.  Season with
 pepper,   salt,  and
 butter  that has been melted enough to rub
 flour  into it (two tablespoonsful of flour). Let the
whole boil ten minutes, and then turn the soup into a
 tureen  into which the  yolks of three
eggs  have been beaten. 
 
 
  TOMATO SOUP. 
 Mrs. Simon Gebhart. One quart of
 tomatoes,  one quart of  milk 
and one quart of  water.  Boil the
 water  and  tomatoes  together
about twenty minutes, and then add the  milk;  then one
teaspoonful of  soda.  Let it just boil up. Season as
you do oyster soup, with  butter, 
 pepper  and  salt;  add
 crackers  if desired. 
 
 
  OKRA GUMBO. 
 Mrs. S. Craighead. Cut up one
 chicken  (an old one is preferable); wash and dry it;
 flour  it well;  salt  and
 pepper;  have ready in a  skillet 
a lump of  lard  as large as an
 egg;  let it get hot; put in your  chicken;  fry very brown all over,
but do not let it burn. Put it in your vessel in which you make soup; pour on
it five quarts of  water;  let it boil two hours; then
cut up about two dozen  okra pods  and add to it; be
sure they are tender and pretty well grown; then let it boil another hour. When
you first put on your soup, cut up an  onion  in it;
 salt  and  pepper  to taste. To
be served with  rice, either boiled or steamed dry. 
  Dried okra  can be used by being put to soak
the night previous; pour off most of the
 water.   
 
 
  PLAIN GUMBO SOUP. Take a piece of
 ham  half the size of your hand, and a
 knuckle of veal;  put them in a pot with two quarts of
 cold water,  simmer slowly two or three hours, then add
two quarts of  boiling water.  Twenty minutes before
serving, put in one small  can of okra  and as many
 oysters  as you please. Season to taste. 
 
 
  PLAIN CALF'S HEAD SOUP. 
 Mrs. S. Craighead. Take a
 calf's head  well cleaned, and a  knuckle of
veal;  put them into a large porcelain vessel; put a large
tablespoonful of  sweet marjoram,  and one of
 sweet basil,  in a clean rag; also a large
 onion  cut up in a cloth; take at least four quarts of
 water  (it must be started as early as eight o'clock,
if you wish it for a one o'clock dinner); let it boil steadily but not too
rapidly;  salt  and  pepper 
well. About twelve o'clock, take off the soup, pour it through a
 cullender,  pick out all the
 meat  carefully, chop very fine and return it to the
soup, placing again upon the fire. Boil four  eggs very
hard;  chop them fine, and slice one  lemon 
very thin, and at last add a wine glass of  wine.  
 
 
  CORN AND TOMATO SOUP. 
 Mrs. S. Craighead. Take a good
 soup bone;  wash it nicely; pour over it sufficient
 water  to cover it well; cut up an
 onion  in it;  salt  and  pepper;  cut down about one
dozen  ears of corn  and as many
 tomatoes  in it, and let it boil slowly for at least
three hours. For dumplings, take one  egg  and beat it a
little; one coffee-cup  sour milk;  small teaspoonful of
 soda;  a little  salt;  and
 flour  enough to make a stiff batter; drop it into the
boiling soup, from a spoon, twenty minutes before serving.  These
dumplings are good in  bean soup  also.  
 
 
  GREEN PEA SOUP. 
 Mrs. Eliza Pierce. One peck
 green peas;  four tablespoonsful of
 lard  heated in the kettle; put in the
 peas  and stir them till perfectly green; add
 pepper  and  salt,  and pour in
as much  water  as you want soup; boil three-fourths of
an hour, then add one teacupful of  milk  thickened with
a tablespoonful of  flour;  put in the soup three or
four young  onions  cut fine and fried a light brown in
 butter.  Just as you take it up, add  yolks
of two eggs,  beaten in a little
 cream.  
 
 
  PEA SOUP. 
 Mrs. Robert Buchanan. Boil the hulls
with a  chicken or knuckle of veal,  then strain the
liquid; throw in a handful of  peas,  and boil to
thicken the soup; when done, put in some  peas  cooked
separately,  pepper  and  salt, 
 cream  and  butter  to
taste. 
 
 
  MACARONI SOUP. Take six pounds of
 beef,  and put into four quarts of
 water,  with two  onions,  one
 carrot,  one  turnip,  and a
 head of celery;  boil it down three or four hours
slowly, till there is about two quarts of  water;  then
let it cool. Next day, half an hour before dinner, take off the grease and pour
the soup into the kettle (leaving the sediment out) and add
 salt  to suit the taste; a pint of
 macaroni  broken into inch pieces, and a tablespoonful
and a half of  tomato catsup.  
  
 
  NOODLES FOR SOUP. Beat up one
 egg;  add a pinch of  salt  and
 flour  enough to make a stiff dough; roll out in a very
thin sheet; dredge with  flour  to keep from sticking;
then roll up tightly; begin at one end and shave down fine like cabbage for
slaw. 
 
 
  MEAT BALLS. Half a pound of
 lean veal  and a pound of  fat
beef  chopped fine; a tablespoonful of
 thyme,  one of  parsley,  a
little less  marjoram  and a little more
 onion,  a pinch of  mace, 
 cloves  and  nutmeg,  the
 yolks of two eggs,  a little  crumbled
bread,   pepper  and
 salt;  mix with the hand in a large bowl; mould into
balls the size of a walnut,and fry in  lard.  After
frying the balls, make a browning of the  lard  they are
fried in (put  flour  in and stir until well cooked) and
brown the soup with it; put the balls in the soup whole. 
 
 
  DUMPLINGS. Take a small teacupful of
 flour,  a pinch of  salt,  and
 butter  the size of a walnut; rub well with the
 flour;  sprinkle in a little
 pepper;  add  sweet milk  enough
to form a stiff dough;  flour  the board and roll very
thin; cut in small squares; drop into the soup, and let them boil ten
minutes. 
 
 
  
 FISH. 
 
  BOILED FISH. All large
 fish,  with the skin whole, should be wrapped in a
cloth, wound with twine, and covered with more than two inches of
 cold water.  In the  water  put
a little  flour;  a small lump of
 butter;  a chopped  onion  and
 parsley.  Be careful not to have too much water. After
the  fish  has boiled sufficiently, take the
 yolks of four eggs;  the  juice of one
lemon;  a little  mace;  and about a gill of
the  water  in which the  fish 
has been boiled; put all into a  stew pan  and let boil
until it thickens; stirring all the time; then pour over the
 fish.  
 
 
  FRIED FISH. Having cleaned the
 fish  thoroughly, wipe dry; sprinkle with
 salt;  dust thick with  flour. 
Take  yolks of four eggs;  beat tolerably light. Put a
little  sweet oil  in the frying pan, and let it be
boiling. Dip the  fish  in the batter; put them in the
pan and fry slowly.  Fish  should not be put in to fry
until the  fat  gets boiling hot. It is very necessary
to observe this rule. 
 
 
  BAKED FISH. 
 Mrs. Geo. L. Phillips. After cleaning,
 salt  the  fish  for about an
hour, then wash it. Make a dressing of  bread crumbs, 
 salt  and  pepper, 
 summer savory,  and a piece
of  butter  the size of a walnut. Then put in a pan and
sprinkle with  flour;  put on a little
 butter,   pepper, 
 salt  and about half a pint of
 water.  Bake an hour and a half. 
 
 
  BAKED CODFISH. Soak the
 codfish  over night; clean it off with a brush kept for
that purpose; then put it into a stone crock and cover with
 water.  Let it simmer until quite tender, then take it
out, pick it over, and mash it fine. Take two-thirds  mashed
potatoes,  seasoned with  butter  and
 salt,  and one-third  codfish; 
mix well together and bake in a dish until brown; then make a  sauce
of drawn butter,  and cut up two  hard boiled
eggs  into it. 
 
 
  STEWED CODFISH. 
 Mrs. Isaac Van Ausdal. Pick the
 codfish  into small pieces; cover it with
 cold water  and let it remain over night. In the
morning pour that off, and put on some  boiling water. 
Let it stand a few minutes, then drain, and stir it up, with two tablespoonsful
of  cream  and a lump of  butter 
the size of an egg. Let it come to the boil, and serve with fresh boiled
 potatoes.  
 
 
  FISH FRITTERS. 
 Mrs. J. A. McMahon. Take the remains
of any  fish  which has been served the preceding day;
remove all the bones, and pound in a mortar; add  bread
crumbs  and  mashed potatoes  in equal
quantities. Mix half a teacupful of  cream  with two
well beaten  eggs,   cayenne
pepper  and  anchovy sauce;  beat all up to
a proper consistency; cut it into small cakes, and fry them in boiling
 lard.  
 
 
  CLAM FRITTERS. Twelve
 clams  minced fine; one pint of
 milk;  three  eggs.  Add the
 liquor from the clams  to the
 milk;  beat up the  eggs  and
put to this  salt,   pepper,  and
 flour  enough for a thin batter; lastly the chopped  clams. 
Fry in  hot lard.  A tablespoonful makes a fritter, or
you can dip the whole  clam  in batter and cook in like
manner. 
 
 
  FISH SAUCE. Stir in one cup of
 drawn butter  the  yolks of two
eggs  well beaten,  pepper  and
 salt,  and a few  sprigs of
parsley;  let it boil, and pour over the
 fish  when ready for the table. 
 
 
  ANOTHER SAUCE FOR FISH. 
 Mrs. R. P. Brown. Piece of
 butter  size of two eggs; melt and mix with it one-half
teacupful of  vinegar,  two
 mustard  spoonsful of  made
mustard,  a little  salt,  one well beaten
 egg.  Stir all the time, or it will thicken in lumps.
It is best made over  boiling water,  as the heat from
the stove is apt to harden the sauce. 
 
 
  TURBOT A LA CREME. 
 Mrs. Sarah Crane. Boil a nice
 fresh fish;  pick out all the bones, and season highly
with  white pepper  and  salt. 
Mix one-quarter pound of  flour  smoothly with one quart
of  milk;  put in five very small
 onions,  a bunch of  parsley,  a
sprig of  thyme,  one teaspoonful of
 salt,  and one-half teaspoonful of  white
pepper.  Place over a quick fire, and stir all the time until it
forms a thick paste, then take off and put in one-half pound of
 butter  and the  yolks of two
eggs.  Mix all together and pass through a sieve. Pour some of this
sauce into a  baking dish,  and add a layer of
 fish  and sauce alternately, until it is all used. The
sauce must be on top, with  bread crumbs  and
 cheese.  Bake in a moderate oven half an hour. 
 
 
  PICKLED SALMON. 
 Mrs. Geo. W. Hoglen. Soak
 salt salmon  twenty-four hours, changing the
 water  several times; afterward put  boiling
water  around it (not over it), and let
it remain fifteen minutes, then pour on  boiling
vinegar,  with  cloves  and
 mace  added. 
 
 
  LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 
 Mrs. Jonathan Harshman. Chop the
 lobster  very fine, and mix with it a little
 parsley,   black pepper, 
 salt  and  bread crumbs; 
moisten with a little  cream. 
 Butter  added makes them less dry. Shape them with your
hands; roll in  bread crumbs;  dip in
 egg  and fry. 
 
 
 
 OYSTERS. 
 
  OYSTER SOUP. 
 Mrs. E. F. Stoddard. To three pints of
 oysters  put three pints of
 water;  when thoroughly cooked, add one pint of
 cream or milk,  the  yolks of four
eggs,  three tablespoonsful of  butter,  and
three of  flour.  
 
 
  OYSTER SOUP. 
 Mrs. J. J. Patterson. To two
half- cans of oysters  add three quarts of good
 milk;  let the whole come to a boil. Put into a
 soup tureen  seven  crackers 
rolled fine,  salt  and  pepper 
to taste, and half pound of  butter;  when the
 oysters  have cooked, pour the soup over the
 crackers  and serve. 
 
 
  STEAMED OYSTERS. Drain the
 oysters  well and turn them into a
 steamer  over a pot of  boiling
water;  let steam for half an hour, stirring occasionally; season
with plenty of  butter,   pepper 
and  salt.  
  
 
  ESCOLLOPED OYSTERS. 
 Mrs. Harvey Conover. Roll
 crackers  very fine, and cover with them the bottom of
a  baking dish  previously buttered; spread a layer of
 oysters  over these crumbs;
 pepper  and  salt  them, and
drop on bits of  butter;  cover with a layer of crumbs,
and thus alternate the layers until the dish is full, having the crumbs cover
the top; place in a very hot oven that it may brown nicely. It takes
three-quarters of an hour. No liquid is put in the dish, not even the liquor of
the oysters, for the butter moistens it sufficiently. 
 
 
  ESCOLLOPED OYSTERS. 
 Mrs. J. F. E. Take two
half- cans of oysters;  look them over carefully to see
that there are no pieces of shell among them. Take equal quantities of rolled
 cracker  and  bread crumbs; 
cover the bottom of a well buttered dish with them; then a layer of
 oysters  sprinkled with  pepper 
and  salt;  add a generous supply of
 butter;  then another layer of crumbs; and so on, 
 mak 

the top layer crumbs, with bits of  butter  through it.
Pour over one pint of  milk or water;  bake
three-quarters of an hour; cover with a plate; when nearly done, take it off
and let them brown. 
 
 
  OYSTER PIE. 
 Mrs. J. A. McMahon. Take a large dish,
 butter  it, and spread a  rich
paste  over the sides and around the edge, but not on the bottom.
The  oysters  should be fresh and as large and fine as
possible; drain off part of the  liquor from the
oysters;  put them into a pan, and season them with
 pepper,   salt  and
 spice.  Have ready the  yolks of three
eggs,  chopped fine, and grated  bread
crumbs;  pour the  oysters  with as much of
their liquor as you please, into the dish that has the
 paste  in it; strew over them the chopped
 egg  and  grated bread;  roll
out the lid of the pie and put it on, crimping the edges; bake in a quick
oven. 
  
 
  OYSTER PATTIES. 
 Mrs. G. W. R. Line small, deep tins,
with  puff paste,  and bake; when cold, put into each,
three or four  oysters,  and season with
 pepper,   salt,  and a little
 butter;  bake about ten minutes. Have ready equal parts
of  water  and  butter,  and pour
over each, as you dish them up. 
 
 
  BROILED OYSTERS. Drain the
 oysters  well and dry them with a napkin. Have ready a
 griddle,  hot and well buttered; season the
 oysters,  lay them on the
 griddle,  and brown them on both sides; serve them on a
hot plate with plenty of  butter.  
 
 
  OYSTER FRITTERS. 
 Mrs. D. A. Bradford. One quart of
 oysters;  half pint of  milk; 
two  eggs.  Open the  oysters; 
strain the liquor into a pan, and add to it half pint of
 milk  and the  eggs  well
beaten; stir in  flour  enough to make a smooth but
rather thin batter; when perfectly free from lumps, put in the
 oysters.  Have some  beef drippings or
butter  made hot in a frying pan; when boiling, drop in the batter,
one or more  oysters  in each spoonful. Brown on both
sides and serve in a hot dish. 
 
 
  FRIED OYSTERS. 
 Mrs. D. W. Stewart. Take large
 oysters;  wash and drain them; lay on a napkin to dry.
Have  cracker flour  well seasoned with
 salt  and  cayenne pepper;  roll
the  oysters  in the  cracker, 
and fry in hot  butter  and
 lard  in equal quantities. When there is a large
quantity needed it is best to put them, as soon as done, into a  tin
vessel  tightly covered, and place in the heater till all are
cooked, as but few can be attended to at a time. 
 
 
  OYSTER CROQUETTES. Take a can of the best
 oysters;  pick them over and dry in a napkin; season well with  pepper 
and  salt.  Have ready the  whites of two
eggs  well beaten, and some  fine corn
meal.  Take one  oyster  at a time, dip it
first into the  egg,  then the
 meal,  and drop in a  deep
skillet  of  boiling lard.  Cook a light
brown. Serve on a hot dish. 
 
 
  OYSTER CHOWDER. 
 Lewis G. Evans. Fry out three rashers
of  pickled pork  in the pot you make the chowder; add
to it three  potatoes  and two
 onions,  both sliced; cover with
 water;  boil until they are nearly cooked; soak two or
three dozen  crackers  in  cold
water  a few minutes, then put into the pot a half can of best
 oysters,  one quart of  milk 
and the soaked  crackers.  Boil all together for a few
minutes; season with  salt, 
 pepper,  and  butter. 
  Fish Chowder  can be made in the same way by using
 fresh fish  instead of oysters.  
 
 
  COVE OYSTERS. One heaping tablespoonful of
 butter;  one even tablespoonful of
 flour;  put in a skillet and stir till a dark brown;
pour on the liquor of the oysters; stir till it thickens, then put in
 oysters  and let them get hot. Season with
 pepper  and fine  herbs;  keep
well covered. 
 
 
  
 MEATS. 
 RULES FOR BOILING MEAT. 
 All fresh meat should be put to cook in boiling water, then the outer part
contracts and the internal juices are preserved. 
 For making soup, where you want all the juices extracted, put on in cold
water. 
 All salt meat should be put on in cold water, that the salt may be extracted
in cooking. 
 In boiling meats, it is important to keep the water constantly boiling,
otherwise the meat will absorb the water. Be careful to add boiling water, if
more is needed. 
 Remove the scum when it first begins to boil. 
 Allow about twenty minutes for boiling for each pound of fresh meat. The
more gently meat boils the more tender it will be. 
 To broil meat well, have your  gridiron  hot before you
put it on. 
 In roasting beef it is necessary to have a brisk fire. Baste often. Season
well with pepper and salt. Twenty minutes is required for every pound of
beef. 
 
  BOILED TURKEY. Stuff the
 turkey  as for roasting. A very nice dressing is made
by chopping half a pint of  oysters  and mixing them with  bread crumbs, 
 butter,   pepper  and
 salt,   thyme or sweet
marjoram,  and wet with  milk  or
 water.  Baste about the  turkey 
a thin cloth, the inside of which has been dredged with
 flour,  and put it to boil in  cold
water,  with a spoonful of  salt  in it. Let
a large  turkey  simmer for two and a half or three
hours. Skim it while boiling. Serve with  oyster sauce 
made by adding to a cupful of the  liquor in which the turkey was
boiled  the same quantity of  milk  and
eight  oysters  chopped fine. Season with minced
 parsley;  stir in a spoonful of  rice or
wheat flour  wet with  cold milk;  a
tablespoonful of  butter.  Boil up once and pour into a
 tureen.  
 
 
  TO ROAST A TURKEY. 
 Mrs. S. Craighead. A
 turkey  a year old is considered best. See that it is
well cleansed and washed.  Salt  and
 pepper  it inside. Take a loaf and a half of
 bakers stale bread  for a good sized turkey; rub it
quite fine with your hands; have in your  skillet  a lump
of  butter  as large as an egg (or a little more); cut
into it one large  white onion;  let it cook a few
minutes, but not get brown; then stir in your  bread, 
one teaspoonful of  salt,  one of
 pepper;  let it get thoroughly heated. Put the turkey
into a dripping pan;  salt  and
 pepper  the outside, and sprinkle a little
 flour  over it. Put about one coffee cup of
 water  in the pan; baste very frequently; use a good,
moderate oven; roast about three hours, or three and a half. Be sure to keep up
an even fire. 
 
 
  PLAIN, EXCELLENT STUFFING. 
 Mrs. R. P. Brown. Take
 stale bread;  cut off all the crust; rub very fine, and
pour over it as much  melted butter  as will make it
crumble in your hands;  salt  and
 pepper  to taste. 
 
 
  TURKEY DRESSED WITH OYSTERS. 
 Mrs. W. A. B. For a ten-pound
 turkey,  take two pints of  bread
crumbs;  half a teacupful of
 butter  cut in bits (not melted); one teaspoonful of
 sweet basil,   pepper  and
 salt,  and mix thoroughly. Rub the
 turkey  well, inside and out, with
 salt  and  pepper;  then fill
with first a spoonful of crumbs, then a few well  drained
oysters,  using half a can for the turkey. Strain the
 oyster liquor  and use to baste the
 turkey.  Cook the  giblets  in
the pan and chop fine in the  gravy.  A
 fowl  of this size will require three hours cooking in
a moderate oven. 
 
 
  POTATO STUFFING. 
 Mrs. J. Harris. Take two-thirds
 bread  and one-third  boiled potatoes
grated,   butter  the size of an egg,
 pepper,   salt,  one
 egg  and a little  ground sage. 
Mix thoroughly. 
 
 
  APPLE STUFFING. Take half a pound of the
 pulp of tart apples,  which have been baked or scalded;
add two ounces of  bread crumbs,  some
 powdered sage,  a finely shred
 onion;  and season well with  cayenne
pepper.  This is a delicious stuffing for  roast
geese,   ducks,  &#38;c. 
 
 
  CHESTNUT STUFFING. Boil the
 chestnuts  and shell them; then blanch them and boil
until soft; mash them fine and mix with a little  sweet
cream,  some  bread crumbs, 
 pepper  and  salt.  Excellent
for  roast turkey.  
 
 
  BOILED CHICKEN POT PIE. 
 Mrs. James Stockstill. Cut up a good
sized  chicken  in all the joints; make a
 rich crust or like soda biscuit;  have ready a smooth
pot; put in a layer of the  chicken  at the bottom;
 pepper  and  salt;  then small,
square pieces of dough, and then a layer of  potatoes 
(quartered if large) and small pieces of  butter;  then
another layer of  chicken,  and so on. Put a crust over
the top with a slit cut each way, so that you can turn back and add more  water  if necessary. Before
putting it on, fill the pot with  boiling water  and
cover closely; boil with a good fire one hour and a half. 
 
 
  CHICKEN PIE. 
 Mrs. W. R. S. Ayres. Boil a
 chicken  until it is tender (one a year old is best);
peel half dozen  potatoes  while it is stewing. To make
the crust, take one quart of  flour;  one tablespoonful
of  baking powder;  a little
 salt;  half a teacupful of
 lard,  and sufficient  water  to
make a stiff dough. Roll half the dough to the thickness of half an inch; cut
in strips and line the dish. Then put in half the
 chicken  and half the
 potatoes;  season with  butter, 
 pepper  and  salt;  dredge well
with  flour,  and put in some of the crust cut in small
pieces. The other half of the  chicken  and
 potatoes,  put in, with
 butter,   salt  and
 pepper,  and dredge with  flour 
as before; roll out the remainder of the dough for upper crust. Before putting
on the cover, fill the dish with  boiling water;  put in
the oven immediately, and bake one hour. 
 
 
  CHICKEN PIE. 
 Mrs. Judge Holt. Stew
 chicken  till tender; season with one-quarter of a
pound of  butter,   salt  and
 pepper;  line the sides of pie dish with a
 rich crust;  pour in the stewed
 chicken,  and cover loosely with a crust, first cutting
a hole in the center, size of a small teacup. Have ready a  can of
oysters;  heat the liquor; thicken with a little
 flour  and  water,  and season
with  salt,   pepper  and
 butter  size of an egg. When it comes to a boil, pout
it over the  oysters,  and about twenty minutes before
the pie is done, lift the top crust and put them in. 
 
 
  FRICASSEED CHICKEN. 
 Mrs. John A. McMahon. Stuff two
 chickens  as if to boil; put in a pot; don't quite
cover with  water;  put them on two hours before
dinner. Chop an  onion, 
some  parsley,  and a little
 mace;  rub a piece of  butter 
twice as large as an egg with  flour,  and stir all in.
Before dishing, beat the  yolks of six eggs  and stir in
carefully; cook five minutes. 
 
 
  TURKEY SCALLOP. Pick the  meat
from the bones of a cold turkey  (without any of the skin); chop it
fine. Put a layer of  bread crumbs  on the bottom of a
buttered dish; moisten them with a little  milk;  then
put in a layer of  turkey  with some of the filling, and
cut small pieces of  butter  over the top; sprinkle with
 pepper  and  salt;  then another
layer of crumbs, and so on until the dish is nearly full; add a little
 hot water  to the  gravy that was left from
the turkey,  and pour over it. Then take two
 eggs;  two tablespoonsful of
 milk;  one of  melted butter;  a
little  salt;  and  cracker
crumbs  as much as will make it thick enough to spread on top with
a  knife;  put bits of  butter 
over it, and cover with a plate; bake three-quarters of an hour. About ten
minutes before serving remove the plate and let the crust brown nicely. 
 
 
  TURKEY OR CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 
 Mrs. S. Gebhart. Mince
 turkey or chicken  as fine as possible; season with
 pepper,   salt,  a little
 nutmeg,  and a very little
 onion.  Take a large tablespoonful of
 butter;  two of  flour; 
one-half glass of  cream;  mix, boil, and stir the
 meat  in. When cold, take a spoonful of the mixture and
dip into the  yolk of an egg;  then in  bread
crumbs;  roll lightly in your hand into the proper shape, and fry
in  boiling lard  deep enough to cover them. 
 
 
  CROQUETTES. 
 Mrs. J. R. Young. One
 sweet bread;  one pound of chopped
 chicken;  half pound  bread
crumbs;  pour on of  boiling water  enough
to moisten them; add the  yolks of two eggs;  stir over
the fire till quite stiff, and set away to cool.
Chop three teaspoonsful of  parsley,  three of
 thyme,  three of  onions,  one
of  mace,  one of  nutmeg; 
 salt  and  cayenne pepper  to
taste; add half pound of  butter;  then beat in the
mixture, two  eggs;  mix well with hand; shape as pears;
dip in  bread crumbs  and  egg, 
and fry in  hot lard,  a light brown. 
 
 
  CROQUETTES. Take the  breast of
two chickens,  or as much  cold, cooked
veal;  beat in a mortar; add as much  ham. 
Add  parsley,   thyme, 
 salt  and  pepper  to taste.
Boil a pint of  new milk,  and thicken it with a little
 flour.  Put in the  meat;  boil
it a short time; take it out, and set it away to cool. Roll in
 grated cracker,  then in the  yolk of an
egg,  and fry. 
 
 
  CURRIED CHICKEN. 
 Lewis G. Evans. Fry out in the pot you
make the curry in, three large rashers of  pickled
pork,  and three  onions  sliced; fry until
the  onions  are brown; cut the
 chicken  into small pieces, and slice three
 potatoes  thin; add them to the
 pork  and  onions;  cover well
with  water;  cook until the
 chicken  is done and the
 potatoes  have thickened the
 water;   salt  to taste. Slice
two or three more  potatoes,  very thin; put two
tablespoonsful of  curry powder  in a
 tumbler,  and mix with  water; 
add the  potatoes  and mixed curry powder to the stew,
and boil until the  potatoes  are cooked, but not
broken; serve with  rice.   Green
peas  and  corn  are a valuable addition.
The above is for one extra large  chicken,  or two of
ordinary size. 
 
 
  STEWED CHICKEN WITH OYSTERS. 
 Mrs. J. F. E. Season and stew a
 chicken  in a quart of  water 
until very tender, but not to fall from the bones. Take it out on a hot dish
and keep it warm; then put into the  liquor in which it was
stewed  a lump of  butter  the size of an
egg; mix a little  flour  and  water,  smooth and make thick
gravy; season well with  pepper  and
 salt,  and let it come to a boil. Have ready a quart of
 oysters  picked over, and put them in without any of
the liquor; stir them around, and as soon as they are cooked pour all over the
 chicken.  
 
 
  TOMATO STEWED BEEF. Scald the
 tomatoes;  skin and quarter them, and sprinkle with
 salt  and  pepper.  Bury the
 meat  in a  stew pan  with
 tomatoes  and add bits of
 butter  rolled in  flour;  a
little  sugar,  and an  onion 
minced fine; let cook until the  meat  is done and the
 tomatoes  dissolved into a pulp. 
 
 
  BEEFSTEAK SMOTHERED IN ONIONS. 
 Mrs. Sarah S. Crane. Put in the
 skillet  a little  lard,  and the
 steak;  peel the  onions;  slice
and lay them over the  meat  till the
 skillet  is full; season with
 salt  and  pepper;  cover it
tightly and put it over the fire. After the  juice of the
onions  has boiled away and the  meat 
begins to fry, remove the onions, turn the  meat  to
brown on the other side, then replace the  onions  as
before. Be very careful that they do not burn. 
 
 
  STUFFED BEEFSTEAK. Take a  flank
or round steak;  pound it and sprinkle with
 pepper  and  salt;  then make a
plain filling and spread it on the  meat;  roll it up
and tie closely. Put in a pot with a quart of  boiling
water,  and a lump of  butter  the size of
an egg. Boil slowly one hour, then put in a pan with the
 water  in which it was boiled, and bake until nicely
browned, basting it frequently. Dredge a little  flour 
into the gravy, boil and pour over the  meat.  
 
 
  POUNDED BEEF. Boil a  shin of
twelve pounds of meat  until it falls readily from the bone; pick
it to pieces; mash  gristle  and all very fine; pick out
all the hard bits. Set the liquor away, and when
cool take off all the fat; boil the liquor down to a pint and a half; then
return the  meat  to it while it is hot; add what
 salt  and  pepper  is needed,
and any  spice  you choose. Let it boil up a few times,
stirring all the while. Put it into a mould or deep dish to cool. Use cold, and
cut in thin slices for tea, or warm it for breakfast. 
 
 
  PRESSED BEEF. 
 Mrs. G. Arnold. Corn a bit of
 briskit  (thin part of the flank or the top of the
ribs) with  salt  and  pulverized
saltpetre  five days, then boil it gently until quite tender. Put
it under a heavy weight or a press till perfectly cold. It is very nice for
sandwiches. 
 
 
  CORN BEEF PICKLE. 
 Mrs. J F. Schenck. Ten pounds of
 salt;  three of  sugar; 
one-fourth of  ginger;  one-half of
 pulverized saltpetre;  one ounce  cayenne
pepper;  nine gallons of  water.  
 
 
  CORN BEEF. 
 Mrs. J. F. Edgar. Take your
 beef,  be it much or little, rub it over lightly with
 salt,  and put it in either an  earthen or
wooden vessel;  let it stand two or three days, then take it out;
throw away the liquor; cleanse the vessel, and put it back again. Make a pickle
of good  salt  that will bear up an egg; to about every
four gallons of liquor add two pounds of  sugar  and two
ounces of  pulverized saltpetre;  mix well together, and
pour over the  meat  until it is covered; it must be
kept under the  brine.  
 
 
  SPICED BEEF. 
 Mrs. J. A. McMahon. For a twenty-five
pound  round  take one and a half ounces of
 pulverized saltpetre  and a handful of
 brown sugar;  pound and mix thoroughly; then rub the
 beef  well with the mixture. Put it into a tub as near
the size of the round as you can get, and let it
remain forty-eight hours, during which time turn and rub the
 beef  twice. Then have prepared one and a half ounces
of  ground pepper;  two ounces of
 allspice;  one of  cloves;  and
three or four good handsful of  fine salt;  pound and
mix the  spice  and  salt,  and
rub the  beef  with it; turn and rub it every day for a
week, taking care to preserve the pickle. It will be ready for use in three or
four weeks. 
 
 
  SPICED BEEF. 
 Miss Blossom Brown. To twenty pounds
of  round beef  take two and a half pounds of
 suet,  chopped very fine, and mixed with
 black pepper  until it is almost black. Mix with this,
one handful  whole allspice,  and one of
 whole cloves;  punch holes through the
 meat  and stuff with  suet;  sew
up in a bag very tight, and cover well with a  brine 
made of four gallons of  water,  one and a half pounds
of  sugar,  two ounces of  pulverized
saltpetre,  and six pounds of  common salt. 
It is ready for use in three weeks. Boil well, and when cold remove the bag and
slice from the cut end. 
 
 
  VEAL OMELET. Three pounds of finely chopped
 veal;  six  rolled crackers; 
three  eggs  well beaten; two large spoonsful of
 cream;  one of  salt;  one
teaspoonful of  white pepper;  use  powdered
sage;   thyme or sweet marjoram  if you
like; mix all well together; form into one or two loaves; baste with
 butter  and  water  while
baking. Bake one hour and a half.   Fresh beef  can
be used in the same way.  
 
 
  VEAL ROLL. 
 Mrs. A. C. Clark. Two pounds of
 porksteak;  three pounds of
 veal,  chopped fine; ten
 crackers,  rolled; one tablespoonful of
 thyme,   summer savory or
parsley;  six  eggs; 
 salt  and  butter.  Mix
thoroughly. Bake one hour; then spread  eggs  and
 cracker  over it and put in to brown. 
  
 
  VEAL CUTLETS. 
 Mrs. S. Craighead. Have a
 steak of first cut;  pound and season it well; cut the
outer edges; then beat it into a good shape. Take one
 egg;  beat it a little; roll the cutlet in it; then
cover thoroughly with  rolled crackers.  Have a lump of
 butter  and  lard  mixed hot in
your  skillet;  put in the  meat 
and let cook slowly; when nicely browned on both sides, stir in one spoonful of
 flour  for the gravy; add a half pint of
 sweet milk  and let it come to a boil;
 salt  and  pepper,  and grate a
little  nutmeg  on it. 
 
 
  VEAL CROQUETTES. 
 Mrs. S. Gebhart. Mince
 veal  very fine; add one  onion 
chopped; mix half a cup of  milk  with one teaspoonful
of  flour;  piece of  butter 
size of a walnut; cook until thickened, and stir into the
 meat;  roll into balls; dip into a beaten
 egg  and roll in  bread crumbs; 
fry in plenty of  hot lard.  
 
 
  SCOLLOPED VEAL. Take three  veal
steaks;  boil until very tender; take them out; save the
 water  in which they were boiled; chop the
 meat  up very fine; put into a deep dish alternate
layers of the  meat  and  bread
crumbs;   salt  and
 pepper  each layer; use small lumps of
 butter.  When the bowl is pretty full, add the liquor,
of which there should be about a pint, and a teacup of
 milk;  a pint of  bread crumbs 
will be about enough.   Cold roast veal,  with the
stuffing and gravy, can be used in the same way.  
 
 
  MARBLED VEAL. 
 Mrs. D. A. Bradford. Take some
 cold, roasted veal;  season with
 spice;  beat in a mortar. Skin a cold, boiled
 tongue;  cut up and pound it to a paste, adding to it
nearly its weight of  butter;  put some of the
 veal  into a pot; then strew in lumps of the pounded
 tongue;  put in another layer of the
 veal,  and again more  tongue;  press it down and pour
 clarified butter  on top. This cuts very prettily, like
veined marble.  The  dressed white meat of fowls 
may be used instead of veal.  
 
 
  IRISH STEW. 
 Winnie. Take  mutton
chops  (one for each person); cover well with
 water,  and let come to a boil. Pour off this and add
more  water.  Take a lump of
 butter  the size of an egg; two tablespoonsful of
 flour;  a teacupful of  milk, 
with  pepper  and  salt  to
taste; also  potatoes,  and a small
 onion  or two, if liked. Boil all till the
 potatoes  are done. 
 
 
  SWEETBREADS. Parboil the
 sweetbreads  as soon as you get them. Remove the tough
parts carefully. Let them lie in  cold water  a short
time before using them, then have  rolled crackers  to
rub them in, and broil or fry as you choose. 
 
 
  SWEETBREADS WITH TOMATOES. 
 Mrs. John A. McMahon. Take two large
 parboiled sweetbreads;  put them into a stew pan with
one and a half gills of  water,  and season with
 salt,   cayenne  and
 black pepper  to taste. Place them over a slow fire.
Mix one large teaspoonful of  browned flour  with a
small piece of  butter,  to which add a  leaf
of mace.  Stir the  butter  and gravy well
together. After letting them stew slowly for half an hour, set the stew pan
into a quick oven, and when the  sweetbreads  are nicely
browned, place them on a dish. Pour the  gravy  into a
half a pint of  stewed tomatoes  thickened with one
dessert-spoonful of  flour  and a small piece of
 butter,  and seasoned with
 salt  and  pepper;  strain it
through a small  wire sieve  into the stew pan; let it
come to a boil and stir until done, then pour it over the
 sweetbreads  and send it to the table hot. 
  
 
  SWEETBREADS WITH MUSHROOMS. Parboil
 sweetbreads,  allowing eight medium ones to a
 can of mushrooms.  Cut the
 sweetbreads  about half an inch square; stew until
tender. Slice  mushrooms  and stew in the liquor for one
hour, then add to the  sweetbreads  a coffee cup of
 cream,   pepper  and
 salt,  and a tablespoonful of
 butter.  Just before serving throw quickly in, two
tablespoonsful of  Madeira wine.  
  Sweetbreads  broiled, and served with a dressing of
 green peas,  make a very nice dish. 
 
 
  FRIED LIVER. 
 Mrs. G. Cut the
 liver  in pieces an inch thick; steam fifteen minutes;
have frying some slices of  pickled pork;  when done
take out the pork and fry the  liver  in the hot
 grease  a nice brown; add a little
 flour  and  water  to the gravy,
cooking a few minutes; pour over the  meat,  and serve;
 pepper  and  salt  to taste. 
 
 
  MOCK TERRAPIN. Half a  calf's
liver,  seasoned and fried brown; hash it, not very fine, and
dredge it thickly with  flour.  Take one teaspoonful of
 mixed mustard;  a pinch of  cayenne
pepper;  two  hard boiled eggs,  chopped
fine; a piece of  butter  the size of an egg; one
teacupful of  water;  and boil together a minute or
two. 
 
 
  DRIED LIVER. 
 Mrs. W. A. B. Allow a
 beef's liver  to remain in  corn beef
brine  for ten days. Hang it up ten days to dry. Slice thin and
broil or fry in  butter.  
 
 
  BOILED HAM. 
 Mrs. P. P. Lowe. Scrape off the
outside gently; soak in  cold water  for three hours, if
the  ham  is small, or over night if it is large.
Take the  ham  from the
 water;  wipe it dry, and place it in a
 boiler  large enough to hold it without bending, and
cover with  cold water.  Throw in six
 cloves,  four small  onions, 
and a handful of  parsley;  boil gently four hours, for
a medium sized  ham.  When boiled, take out and trim;
removing the rind and the small bone at the large end, by breaking it off
carefully without tearing the  meat.  After the
 ham  is trimmed, put it in the
 oven  for from one-half to an hour, basting it
frequently. 
 
 
  BAKED HAM. A  ham 
of 16 pounds to be boiled three hours slowly; then skin, and in the
 fat  rub half a pound of  brown
sugar;  pour over it a gill of  wine  and
cover with  bread crumbs.  Bake for two hours, basting
with  wine.  
 
 
  HAM SANDWICHES. 
 Mrs. J. W. S. Chop fine some
 cold dressed ham,  and mix with it a teaspoonful of
 chopped pickle,  one of
 mustard,  and a little  pepper. 
Beat about half a pound of  butter  to a cream, and then
add the  ham  and  seasoning. 
Spread on thin  slices of bread  and place between them
bits of  cold roast beef, mutton, chicken or quail.  
 
 
  TRAVELING LUNCH. 
 Miss Hattie
Brown.  Sardines  chopped fine; also a
little  ham;  a small quantity of  chopped
pickles;  mix with  mustard, 
 pepper,   catsup, 
 salt  and  vinegar;  spread
between  bread  nicely buttered. To be like jelly cake,
cut in slices crossways. Will keep fresh some time. 
 
 
  SANDWICHES. 
 Mrs. Rebecca Buck. Rub one
tablespoonful of  mustard  into one-half pound of
 sweet butter;  spread on thin slices of
 bread;  cut  boiled ham  very
thin, and place in between two pieces of the
 bread.  
  
 
  HASH. Take  cold
beef  of any kind; cut very fine; then take about one-third
 mashed potatoes;  warm, season and pound altogether in
a  stone crock;  cut in slices and brown in
 butter.  
 
 
  CRACKER HASH. 
 Mrs. D. W. S. To one pound of
 cooked beef  chopped fine, take seven
 crackers (rolled).  First cook the
 meat  in a little  water  a few
minutes,  seasoning  with  salt 
and  pepper;  then stir into the
 crackers  and pour all into a pudding dish; if too dry,
add a little  water.  Take a piece of
 butter  size of a walnut and cut in small pieces over
the top of the dish. Bake about twenty minutes, or until quite brown; serve in
the same dish. 
 
 
  HAM BALLS. Beat together two
 eggs  and a half cupful of  bread
crumbs;  chop fine some bits of  boiled
ham,  and mix with them; make into balls and fry a nice brown. 
 
 
  FRIED PATTIES. Mince a little
 cold veal  and  ham,  allowing
one-third  ham  to two-thirds
 veal;  add an  egg boiled hard 
and chopped fine, and a  seasoning  of pounded
 mace,   salt, 
 pepper  and  lemon peel; 
moisten with a little  gravy or cream.  Make a good
 puff paste;  roll rather thin and cut into round or
square pieces; put the mince between two of them, pinch the edges to keep in
the  gravy  and fry a light brown. They may also be
baked in  patty pans;  in that case they should be brushed
over with the  yolk of an egg  before they are put in
the oven. 
 
 
  SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH BEEF. Chip
 dried beef  very fine; put equal parts of
 lard  and  butter  in a
 skillet;  when hot put in the
 beef;  heat up a few minutes, stirring to keep from burning; break up some
 eggs  in a bowl; season and stir in. It will require
but a few minutes' cooking. 
 
 
  OMELETTE, OR FRENCH EGG CAKE. 
 E. C. Beat up thoroughly six
 eggs;  a teaspoonful of  sweet cream or
milk,  and a little  salt.  Fry in a pan in
which there is one-half ounce of  melted butter,  over a
quick fire. In order that the omelette may remain soft and juicy, it is
necessary that the pan should be hot before the  eggs 
are poured in. During the frying move the pan continually to and fro, so that
what is below may always come on top again. Continue this until there is a cake
formed, then let it remain still a moment to give it color. Turn out on a dish
and serve immediately. 
 
 
  FRENCH OMELETTE. One quart of
 milk;  one pint of  bread
crumbs;  five  eggs;  one tablespoonful of
 flour;  one  onion,  chopped
fine; chopped  parsley;  season with
 pepper  and  salt.  Have
 butter  melted in a  frying pan; 
when the omelette is brown, turn it over. Double it when served. 
 
 
  
 SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 
 
  DRAWN BUTTER (FOR SAUCE). 
 Mrs. R. P. Brown. One-quarter pound of
 butter;  rub with it two teaspoonsful of
 flour.  When well mixed, put in a  sauce
pan,  with one tablespoonful of  water  and a
little  salt.  Cover it and set the  sauce
pan  in a larger one of  boiling water. 
Shake it constantly till completely melted and beginning to boil. If the pan
containing the  butter  be set on coals, it will oil the
butter and spoil it.  A great variety of  sauces, which are
excellent to eat with fish, poultry or boiled meats,  can be made by
adding different  herbs  to  melted
butter.   
 
 
  CURRY POWDER, FOR GRAVIES FOR DUCKS AND OTHER
MEATS. 
 Mrs. D. W. S. Mix an ounce of
 ginger;  one of  mustard;  one
of  black pepper;  three of  coriander
seed;  three of  tumeric;  quarter of an
ounce of  cayenne pepper;  half an ounce of
 cardamom;  half an ounce of  cumin
seed  and  cinnamon.  Pound the whole very
fine; sift and keep it in a bottle corked tight. 
 
 
  CELERY SAUCE. As this sauce is to be used
for  boiled chicken or turkey,  put a good handful of
 celery  tied up in a bunch into the pot with the  fowl.  When quite soft take
it out; chop it fine, and mix with rich  drawn butter 
and some of the  water  in which it was boiled. Season
with  pepper  and  salt,  and
stew all together. 
 
 
  TOMATO CATSUP. 
 Miss Perrine. Take one gallon of
 strained tomatoes;  four tablespoonsful of
 salt;  one and a half of
 allspice;  three of  mustard; 
eight  pods of red pepper.  Grind the articles fine.
Simmer slowly in strong  vinegar  three or four hours,
then strain through a  hair sieve,  and bottle. Enough
 vinegar  should be used to have half a gallon of liquor
when the process is over. 
 
 
  TOMATO CATSUP. 
 Mrs. H. L. Brown. Cut up ripe
 tomatoes;  boil soft and strain; put them on again and
boil half down. Then to every three and a half gallons of
 juice  put twelve tablespoonsful of
 salt;  six of  pepper;  one of
 allspice;  one of  mustard;  one
of  mace;  one-half of  cloves; 
one of  ginger;  six small  pods of red
pepper,  chopped fine; boil hard one hour. 
 
 
  TOMATO CATSUP. 
 Mrs. E. F. S. To one and a half
bushels of  tomatoes  use the following
 spices : Three  papers of
cloves;  two of  allspice;  a little
 cayenne pepper,  and plenty of  black
pepper  and  salt,  and a pint of
 vinegar  to each gallon. Tie up a few
 onions  in a bag and boil with the catsup. Boil half
down. 
 
 
  COLD TOMATO CATSUP. 
 Mrs. Bierce. One-half peck
 tomatoes,  run through a sieve; one teacupful of
 salt;  one of  mustard seed; 
six  red peppers;  three tablespoonsful of
 pepper;  one-half gallon of
 vinegar;  piece of
 horseradish;  one teacupful of
 nasturtions;  half a cup of  celery
seed.  Do not cook, but seal tight in bottles. 
  
 
  TOMATO MUSTARD. Take one peck of
 tomatoes;  cut them into a porcelain kettle; boil until
soft; rub through a sieve; put the pulp back in the kettle, and boil until
quite thick. Take one teaspoonful of  cayenne pepper; one of
white;  half a one of  cloves;  two of
 mustard;  one tablespoonful of
 salt.  Let all boil together, a few minutes, then stir
in half a pint of  vinegar.  When cool, bottle and cork
tightly. 
 
 
  FOR MIXING MUSTARD. 
 Mrs. L. Moore. Three teaspoonsful
 good mustard;  one teaspoonful
 salt;  half teaspoonful
 pepper;  two tablespoonsful  brown
sugar,  rolled; mix with  hot vinegar. 
Better after the first day. 
 
 
  MIXED MUSTARD. Two tablespoonsful of
 dry mustard;  one teaspoonful of
 salt;  one teaspoonful of  brown
sugar.  Mix to a thick paste, with  oil, 
and then to a proper consistency, with  vinegar.  Let
stand twenty-four hours before using. 
 
 
  CUCUMBER CATSUP. 
 Mrs. William Bomberger. Take three
dozen large  cucumbers;  three  white
onions;  grate all to a pulp; drain through a
 sieve,  several hours; add to the pulp,
 salt,   pepper,  and
 good vinegar.  Seal up in bottles. 
 
 
  WALNUT CATSUP. 
 Mrs. E. Take young, tender
 walnuts;  prick them and place in a jar with sufficient
 water  to cover them; add a handful of
 salt  to every twenty-five
 walnuts.  Stir them twice a day for fourteen days;
drain off the liquor into a kettle; cover the walnuts with  boiling
vinegar;  crush them to a pulp, and strain through a
 cullender  into the juice. For every quart, take two
ounces each of  white pepper  and
 ginger,  and one each of  cloves  and  grated
nutmeg;  a pinch of  cayenne pepper;  a
small  onion,  minced fine, and a teaspoonful of
 celery seed  tied in muslin. Boil all together for one
hour. When cold, bottle. 
 
 
  MUSHROOM CATSUP. Put the
 mushrooms  in layers, with
 salt  sprinkled over each layer. Let them stand four
days. Then mash them fine, and to every quart add two-thirds of a teaspoonful
of  black pepper,  and boil in a  stone
jar,  set in  boiling water,  two hours.
Strain without squeezing; boil the liquor; let it stand to cool and settle.
Then bottle and cork tight, and set in a cool place. 
 
 
  WILD PLUM CATSUP. 
 Mrs. Admiral Schenck. To ten pounds of
 plums  take five pounds  sugar. 
Boil, mash and strain the  fruit;  and to every quart of
juice add rather more than one-half pint of  vinegar; 
add  cinnamon,   cloves  and
 nutmegs;  boil fifteen minutes and put into
bottles. 
 
 
  GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 
 Mrs. E. Rohrer. To five pounds of
 berries  put two and a half pounds of
 sugar;  boil down as thick as apple butter; add
 cinnamon  and  cloves  to taste;
a pinch of  salt;  one pint of
 vinegar;  strain through a  hair
sieve.  
 
 
  CURRANT CATSUP. 
 Mrs. John Day. Two quarts of
 currant juice;  three pounds of
 sugar;  one pint of  vinegar; 
one tablespoonful each of  cinnamon, 
 cloves,   pepper, 
 allspice  and  nutmeg;  boil
twenty minutes. 
 
 
  GRAPE CATSUP. 
 Mrs. J. D. Loomis. Ten pints of
 grapes;  two pounds of  sugar; 
one pint of  vinegar;  one ounce
 cloves;  one ounce  cinnamon. 
Put the  vinegar  and
 sugar  together; boil fifteen minutes; then squeeze the
pulps of the  grapes  out of the skin and boil a few
minutes; then warm the pulps and rub the seeds out in a
 cullender;  put the skins and pulps together and add them
to the  vinegar  and  sugar; 
boil the whole twenty minutes. 
 
 
  CHILI SAUCE. 
 Mrs. R. P. Brown. Six good sized
 onions;  twelve  green peppers; 
three dozen  ripe tomatoes  peeled and chopped; three or
four tablespoonsful of  fine salt.  Stew all together
gently several hours, until soft, and begin to thicken; seal hot. 
 
 
  CELERY VINEGAR. Pound two large spoonsful
of  celery seed  fine; put it in a quart bottle and fill
up with  sharp vinegar;  it must be closely corked. The
same steeped in  brandy  is nice for flavoring
soups. 
 
 
  CELERY SOY. 
 Mrs. J. Morehead. One peck of
 tomatoes  boiled; one teacup of
 salt;  one-half teacup of fine  white
pepper;  one teaspoonful  cayenne pepper; 
four  onions  chopped fine; one pound
 sugar.  Boil one hour, and just before removing from
the fire add a quart of good,  sharp vinegar.  When
cold, add a half cup of  celery seed,  rolled; two
tablespoonsful  ground cloves  and
 allspice.  Let stand one night; then press through a
 sieve  and bottle closely. 
 
 
  TO KEEP HORSE RADISH All winter; have a
quantity grated while the  root  is in perfection; put
in bottles; fill up with  strong vinegar;  and keep
tightly corked. 
 
 
  
 The following 13 recipes within this chapter are handwritten. 
 
 
 Christmas Plum Pudding  1 pt bowl grated bread
crumbs  1 cup suet chopped  1 do Brown
sugar  1/2 do Molasses (orleans)  1/2 do Sour
Milk  2 Teaspoons 
 Soada 

- little salt  1/4 Tea cup brandy  1 Tea spoon each kind
spices including mace - lemon extract.  4 Eggs, beat
separate  1 large cup raisins  1 do do
currants  1 small piece citron, cut fine   
 Fruit to be dredged in flour - also add flour to make a thick batter. Rub
the crumbs of bread and suet together. The water to be boiling when the steamer
is put on and to continue boiling for 5 hours without stopping. 
 Sauce for the Pudding 
 Butter and sugar stirred to a cream - one teaspoonful corn starch with
boiling water poured over it, then pour over the butter &#38; sugar, add Brandy
last  
 
 
 Suet Pudding  1/2 cup brown sugar  1/2
do Molasses  1 quart bread crumbs  1 cup
currants  1 do Raisins  1/2 do suet  1/2 spoon
soda  1 Tea spoon spices  nutmeg, cloves, cinnamon and
lemon extract.   
 
 
 Baked Pudding  1 teacup sweet milk  1 do
sugar  2 Eggs  1 lump butter half size of an
egg  1 teaspoonful soda  2 do cream
tartar  Flour to make batter as stiff as can stir -  Half
the measure enough for six    
 Sanderland Pudding. 
 3 Eggs - 1 pt sweet milk - 8 spoons full flour, a little suet. Mix a little
milk and flour and yolks of eggs at a time to make a smooth paste, without any
lumps, until all the milk is worked in. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and
add last - 
 To be eaten the moment it is done 
 A sauce made with flour, sugar, water, butter and brandy, flavored with
lemon. 
 Suet Pudding 
 1 cup molasses - 1 do suet chopped fine - 1 cup water - 1 tea-spoonful soda
- and flour to make a thick batter - 
 Put in a cake pan - set in a steamer over a kettle of hot water and steam 3
hours.  
 Corn Meal Pudding 
 1 qt of milk - Take half of it and let it boil, and stir in meal to make a
thick mush - beat three eggs separate - take the remaining milk and yolk of
egg, and sugar to your taste and mix with the mush, stirring in the white the
last, and bake half an hour 
 Christmas Plum Pudding 
 1 pound cut raisins - do of cut currants - one do bread crumbs - 1/2 pound
suet chopped fine, with 2 table spoonfuls flour - 8 eggs - 1 quart milk - 1 tea
cup sugar - 1 nut-meg - 4 oz candied citron - 4 oz Lemon - 1 table spoon
powdered cloves. 
 Boil gently 4 hours and eat with rich sauce  
 Delmonico Pudding 
 Boil 1 quart of milk - stir in just before it boils 3 tablespoons corn
starch wet with rich milk - 
 Boil 3 minutes - Yolks of 5 eggs beaten with 4 table spoons of sugar. Flavor
with vanilla &#38; add to the starch and milk. Put in a buttered dish and bake
ten minutes - 
 Beat the whites to a stiff froth with 3 table spoons of sugar, flavor with
vanilla and put over the top - bake a light brown &#38; serve cold with cream
and sugar 
 Poor Mans Pudding 
 2 quarts milk - 1 cup uncooked rice 1/2 cup sugar - butter size of walnut -
2 salt spoons suet - spice to taste. Bake 3 hours and stir several times during
the first hour.  
 Green Corn Pudding 
 Take 1/2 doz ears good sweet green corn - split each row of Kernels with a
sharp Knife and scrape from the cob - mix with the pulp 2 eggs well beaten. 2
table spoons sugar 1 do butter - salt spoon of salt - 1/2 pint sweet cream (or
milk may be substituted with an extra spoonful butter) 1 doz crackers pounded
fine or grated - 
 Mix well together &#38; bake 3 hours in a pudding dish, or 2 in custard
cups. Use the corn raw. 
 Mrs. Meachams Boiled Indian Pudding 
 2 cups Indian Meal 2 &#32;"&#32; &#32; Flour - 1 egg - 1/2 cup Molasses.
1 tea spoon soda - 2 cream-Tartar sifted in the flour. Wet with milk until
about as thick as cake - Steam 3 hours, never lift the cover while
cooking  
 Baked Indian Pudding. 
 1 quart milk - 4 eggs - 3 large spoons Indian Meal - Nutmeg and sugar to
taste - Boil milk and scald the meal, and let it cool before adding eggs. Bake
3/4 of an hour 
 End of handwritten recipes. 
 
  
 VEGETABLES. 
 Endeavor to have your vegetables as fresh as possible. Wash them thoroughly.
Cut out all the decayed parts, and lay them in cold water until you are ready
to use them. 
 Vegetables should be put on to cook in boiling water and salt. Never let
them stand after coming off the fire; put them instantly into a cullender, over
a pot of boiling water, if you have to keep them back for dinner. 
 Peas, beans and asparagus, if young, will cook in twenty-five or thirty
minutes. They should be boiled in a good deal of salt water. 
 Cauliflower should be wrapped in a cloth, when boiled, and served with rich
drawn butter. 
 Potato water is thought to be unhealthy; therefore do not boil potatoes in
soup, but in another vessel, and add them to it when nearly cooked. 
 
  BAKED TOMATOES. Fill a deep pan (as many as
will set on the bottom) with ripe  tomatoes;  round out
a hole in the center of each and fill up with  bread
crumbs,   butter, 
 salt,   pepper  and a little
 sugar.  Put a teacupful of
 water  in the pan to prevent them from burning. Bake
brown, and send to the table hot. 
  
 
  BROILED TOMATOES. Take smooth, flat
 tomatoes;  wipe and set them on a
 gridiron;  with the stem side down; over live coals. When
this is brown, turn them and let cook until quite hot through; place them on a
hot dish. To be dressed, when eaten, with  butter, 
 pepper  and  salt.  
 
 
  SCALLOPED TOMATOES. Put alternate layers of
sliced  tomatoes  and  bread
crumbs  into a bread pan. Season with sliced
 onion,   butter, 
 pepper  and  salt;  and bake for
one hour. 
 
 
  FRIED TOMATOES. Slice
 tomatoes  quite thick;  pepper 
and  salt  them; roll in  flour; 
and fry in equal parts of  butter  and
 lard.  Put them in a dish to be served; keeping very
hot. A little  flour  and
 butter  mixed; stir into the
 skillet  with a cup of  milk; 
boil until well thickened; pour over the  tomatoes.  
 
 
  SLICED TOMATOES. Scald ripe
 tomatoes;  let them stand in  cold
water  fifteen minutes; then take off the skin and slice in a dish
garnished with  sweet peppers.  
 
 
  TOMATO SALAD. Slice
 tomatoes  and serve with  mayonnaise salad
dressing.  
 
 
  STEWED CORN. 
 Kate P. Brown. Cut the
 corn from the cobs;  boil the
 cobs  ten or fifteen minutes; then take them out and
put the  corn  into the same
 water.  When it is tender, put in some
 milk;  season with  butter, 
 pepper  and  salt.  Just before
serving stir in beaten  eggs;  allowing three
 eggs  to a dozen  ears of corn; 
one pint of  milk  to a quart of
 corn.  
  
 
  SUCCOTASH. 
 Kate P. Brown. Put  Lima
beans  on to boil, soon after breakfast; let them get well done.
Have the  corn  boiling in a separate pot. When done,
cut the corn off the cobs and have twice as much  corn 
as  beans;  put the corn with the beans and let them
boil. Just before serving, put in a little  butter, 
 pepper  and  salt.  
 
 
  GREEN CORN PUDDING. 
 Mrs. James Stockstill. Four
 ears of green corn  cut down fine; two
 eggs;  one pint of  milk; 
 butter  size of an egg; three tablespoonsful of
 flour;   salt  and
 pepper;  beat well together; bake one hour; to be
served as a vegetable. 
 
 
  CORN OYSTERS. To one quart of
 grated corn  add three  eggs, 
and three or four  grated crackers;  beat well, and
season with  salt  and  pepper; 
fry in  butter or lard.  If the
 corn  is young and juicy, more
 crackers  may be needed; drop in the pan with a
spoon. 
 
 
  CORN FRITTERS. 
 Mrs. P. P. Lowe. One dozen
 ears of corn  when it first comes, or a half dozen ears
after it is grown. Cut the grains down the middle of each row, and cut
carefully off the  cob.  If the grains are large, chop
them a little with the  chopping knife  after they are cut
off. Add to the  corn  and mix well the
 yolks of two eggs;  one half cup of  sweet
milk;  a lump of  butter  the size of a
walnut; a pinch of  salt, 
 pepper,  and a small cup of
 flour;  lastly, beat to a stiff froth the
 whites of the eggs.  Fry a nice brown on both sides, in
a  skillet  with  fresh lard,  and
serve hot. 
 
 
  BOILED ONIONS. Boil in four
 waters  and drain off; pick to pieces with a fork as they cook. Mix a little
 flour  and  butter  together,
and put in two tablespoonsful of  warm milk;  boil and
pour over the  onions;  season well. 
 
 
  BOILED TURNIPS. 
 Mrs. McM. Boil
 turnips  in a good deal of  salt
water;  when soft, drain off the water and put them in a
 skillet  with  cream  and
 butter,  and let them simmer. 
 
 
  GREEN PEAS. 
 Kate P. Brown. Put the hulls in a pot;
cover them with  water  and boil thoroughly; then strain
and put the  peas  in the same
 water  and let boil until tender. When ready to serve
put in some  butter  and
 pepper,  a pinch of  salt,  and
the least bit of  sugar.  
 
 
  FRICASSEED PEAS. 
 Mrs. Eliza Pierce. Put the
 peas  in a pot; boil till soft; season with
 salt,   pepper  and a cup of
 milk;  a small cup of  butter; 
a tablespoonful of  flour  in the
 milk.  When ready to serve, add the  yolks
of two eggs  in a cup of  milk or
cream.  
 
 
  STRING BEANS. Get them young and crispy;
break off both ends and string them; break in halves, and boil in
 water  with a little  salt 
until tender; drain free from  water  and season with
 pepper;  add  butter  and a
spoonful of  cream or milk,  and boil a few minutes. 
 
 
  COOKING BEANS.  From Moore's Rural New Yorker. 
  If, my dear Rural, you ever should wish  For breakfast
or dinner a tempting dish  Of the  beans  so
famous in Boston town,  You must read the rules I here lay
down;  When the sun has set in golden light,  And around
you fall the shades of night,   A large,
deep dish you first prepare;  A quart of
 beans  select with care;  And pick them
over, until you find  Not a speck or a moat is left
behind.  A lot of  cold water  on them
pour  'Till every  bean  is covered
o'er,  And they seem to your poetic eye  Like pearls in
the depth of the sea to lie;  Here, if you please you may let them
stay  'Till just after breakfast the very next day,  When
a parboiling process must be gone through  (I mean for the
 beans,  and not for you;)  Then, if in the
pantry, there still should be  That bean pot, so famous in
history,  With all due deference, bring it out,  And, if
there's a skimmer lying about,  Skim half of the
 beans  from the boiling pan  Into the bean
pot as fast as you can;  Then turn to Biddy and calmly tell
her  To take a  huge knife  and go to the
cellar;  For you must have, like Shylock of old,  "A
pound of flesh," ere your  beans  grow
cold;  But very unlike that ancient Jew,  Nothing but
 pork  will do for you.  Then tell once more
your maiden fair,  In the choice of the piece to take great
care,  For a  streak of fat and a streak of
lean   Will give the right flavor to every
 bean!   This you must wash, and rinse, and
score,  Put into the pot and round it pour  The rest,
till the view presented seems  Like an island of
 pork  in an ocean of
 beans;   Pour on  boiling hot
water  enough to cover  The tops of the
 beans  completely over,  Shove into the oven
and bake till done,  And the triumph of Yankee cookery's
won!   
  
 
  BAKED BEANS. 
 Mrs. A. C. Coburn. Three pints of
 beans  and half a pound of  salt
pork;  put  beans  to soak over night; next
morning put them in a vessel with a gallon of  soft
water  and half a teaspoonful of  soda;  let
simmer slowly until thoroughly swelled, but not bursted; then lift them out
with a perforated skimmer, into a pan with clear  hot
water.  Set them on the  stove  where they
will keep hot but not boil; then pour  boiling water 
over the  pork;  scrape the rind and score it; lay it in
a  flat stone crock  kept for that purpose; put the
 beans  in all around it; add one tablespoonful of
 butter,  and two of  molasses; 
fill up with  boiling water;  bake four or five
hours. 
 
 
  TO COOK ASPARAGUS. 
 Mrs. James Stockstill. Cut off all the
tough parts and lay the bunches in a pan; cover with  boiling
water  and let them cook slowly half an hour. Ten minutes before
they are done, add a little  salt.  Have ready two or
three  slices of toasted bread. 
 Butter  well, and put a tablespoonful or two of liquor
over it; take the  asparagus  up carefully and lay it on
the  toast;  mix a piece of
 butter  thoroughly with a little
 flour;  add  pepper  and
 salt,  and stir into the liquor and pour over the
 asparagus.  
 
 
  NEW POTATOES. Scrape and wash new
 potatoes;  put in a sauce pan with  hot
water;  when done pour off the  water;  set
them on top of the stove a few minutes to steam; put in a lump of
 butter  size of an egg; two tablespoonsful of
 cream;  season with  salt  and
 pepper;  boil a few minutes. Shake the pan to keep them
from burning. 
 
 
  STEWED POTATOES. Boil the
 potatoes  and cut into thin slices; make a dressing by
mixing one tablespoonful of  melted butter  with a
little  flour  and a cupful
of  cream;  add the  yolk of an
egg  and a little chopped  parsley.  Stir up
with  potatoes  and serve immediately. 
 
 
  POTATO BALLS. 
 Mrs. R. P. Brown. Mix
 mashed potatoes  with the  yolk of an
egg;  roll into balls, and  flour  them; or
cover with  egg  and  bread
crumbs.  Fry them in clean  drippings  or
brown in a  dutch oven.  
 
 
  POTATO PUFFS. 
 Mrs. W. A. Phelps. Take two cupsful of
 mashed potatoes,  and stir in two tablespoonsful of
 melted butter;  beating to a  white
cream  before adding any thing else. Then put with this two
 eggs  whipped very light, and a teacupful of
 cream or milk;  salting to taste. Beat all well; pour
into a deep dish; and bake in a quick oven until brown. 
 
 
  POTATO FRITTERS. One cupful of
 mashed potatoes;  two  eggs; 
one half pint of  milk;  one tablespoonful of
 flour,  and lump of  butter. 
Drop in  boiling lard.  
 
 
  POTATO CROQUETTES. 
 Miss Hotchkiss. Take six
 potatoes;  peel, and cut in small pieces; cover with
 boiling water;  when soft, strain off the
 water,  and pass through a
 cullender;  mix three  eggs  (one
at a time) with the  potatoes;  add two tablespoonsful
of  bread crumbs  and a little
 salt;  place all over the fire, and stir constantly.
When thoroughly mixed, take off the fire, and set to cool. Roll into balls, and
fry in  hot lard.  
 
 
  SARATOGA POTATOES. 
 Mrs. D. W. S. Take four large
 potatoes  (new ones are best); pare, and cut into thin
slices on a  slaw cutter;  put them into  salt
water,  and let stand while breakfast
is preparing. Then have ready a skillet of  boiling
lard.  Take a handful of the  potatoes, 
squeeze the water from them, and dry in a  napkin; 
separate the slices and drop into the  lard,  being
careful that the pieces do not adhere to each other. Stir with a fork till they
are a light brown color. Take them out with a  wire
spoon,  and drain well before putting into the dish. Do not put more
than a handful into the  lard  at a time. Do not cover
the dish when served. 
 
 
  CABBAGE A LA CAULIFLOWER. 
 Mrs. R. P. Brown. Cut the
 cabbage  fine, as for slaw; put it into a
 stew pan;  cover with  water,  and
keep closely covered; when tender, drain off the
 water;  put in a small piece of
 butter  with a little  salt; 
one half a cup of  cream,  or one cup of
 milk.  Leave on the  stove  a few
minutes, before serving. 
 
 
  CREAM CABBAGE. 
 Mrs. Charles Spinning. Beat together
the  yolks of two eggs;  one half cup of
 sugar;  one half cup of
 vinegar;  a piece of  butter 
the size of an egg;  salt,  and a little
 cayenne pepper.  Put the mixture in a  sauce
pan,  and stir until it boils; then stir in one cup of
 cream.  Let it boil. Pour it over the
 cabbage  while hot. 
 
 
  STEAMED RICE. One large cup of
 rice;  pick it over and wash thoroughly and drain; put
it in a bucket and cover closely; set in  boiling
water;  don't stir while cooking. Steam till soft. Season and eat
while warm with  cream.  
 
 
  BOILED RICE. 
 Mrs. W. R. S. Ayres. Take one cup of
 rice;  half a pint of  water, 
and put on to boil; when the  rice  has absorbed the
 water,  put in one pint of  sweet
milk,  and let boil three-quarters of an hour; don't stir while
cooking. 
  
 
  RICE CROQUETTES. Take cold boiled
 rice;  add three  eggs,  with
 sugar  and  lemon peel  to your
taste. Make into oval balls; rub with  bread crumbs, 
and dip them in beaten  egg.  Fry in
 butter;  when done, sprinkle
 sugar  over them. 
 
 
  FRIED EGG PLANT. Cut in slices and lay in
 salt  and  water  for one or two
hours; wipe dry and season with  pepper  and
 salt;  dip the slices into  yolk of an
egg  and  grated bread crumbs.  Fry in
 butter  till brown. 
 
 
  TO COOK EGG PLANTS. 
 Hattie B. Brown. Slice, pare and
parboil; mash, and season with  butter, 
 salt  and  pepper;  one
 egg  to a plant; about two tablespoonsful of
 flour;   milk  enough to make a
batter. Drop a spoonful at a time into  hot lard,  and
fry like fritters. 
 
 
  STUFFED EGG PLANT. 
 Mrs. S. Craighead. Take a full grown
 egg plant;  cut it in two, lengthwise; take all the
inside out (leaving the skin about half an inch thick); chop it quite fine; mix
with it about as much  bread crumbs  as you have of
 egg plant;   salt  and
 pepper  to taste; one teaspoonful of
 sugar.  Have ready a tablespoonful of
 butter  in a  skillet,  and, when
hot, put in the mixture, and let it cook about ten minutes, stirring it
occasionally. Then return it to the shells; put in the
 oven  and bake about one half hour. Serve in the
shells. 
 
 
  OYSTER PLANT. 
 Mrs. Geo. L. Phillips. Wash and
scrape; cover with  water  and a little
 salt.  When tender, pour off the water; chop then up
immediately, or they will turn black; put into a kettle; add half a pint of
 cream;  one teaspoonful of
 flour;  a lump of  butter.  Pour
over and let come to a boil. 
  
 
  FRIED OYSTER PLANT. Parboil
 oyster plant;  scrape off the outside; cut it in
slices; dip it into beaten  egg  and fine
 bread crumbs;  fry in  hot
lard.  
 
 
  FRIED OYSTER PLANT, NO. 2. Scrape the
 roots,  and boil in  water, 
with a little  salt,  until tender; drain and mash them;
put in a small lump of  butter  and one
 egg;  season with  pepper  and
 salt;  add  flour  enough to
make them stick together. Make into cakes, and fry, in
 butter.  
 
 
  BOILED HUBBARD SQUASH. 
 Mrs. Evans. Skin, and cut up in long
slices; put in a pot, with points down; boil till tender; pour off water, and
drain; mash, with  butter  and
 salt.  
 
 
  BAKED SQUASH. Cut in squares, leaving on
the rind, and bake in the oven like sweet potatoes. 
 
 
  SPINACH. 
 E. C. B. After being carefully washed,
stuff it into a  sauce pan,  without any water; sprinkle
over a little  salt,  and cover closely; shake
occasionally while cooking. When tender, drain it, and serve with
 drawn butter.  
 
 
  GREENS. Boil  beet
tops,   turnip tops, 
 spinach,   cabbage sprouts, 
 poke sprouts,   dandelion,  and
 lamb's quarters,  in  salted
water,  until they are tender; drain in a cullender, pressing hard.
Serve them, garnished with  hard boiled eggs,  cut in
slices. 
 
 
  BROILED MUSHROOMS. Cut off the stems and
peel off the skins of the  mushrooms;  put them on the
 gridiron,  hollow side up; put a little
 butter,   pepper  and
 salt,  on each; cook over hot coals, a few minutes; do
not turn. Serve hot, with a little more  butter.  
  
 
  STEWED MUSHROOMS. Prepare as above; put
them in a  stew pan,  with a little
 water  and  salt;  simmer slowly
half an hour; add  butter,  a little
 flour,   pepper,  and two
tablespoonsful of  cream.  Boil up once, and serve on
 toast.  
 
 
  MACARONI, AS A VEGETABLE. 
 Mrs. R. P. Brown. Simmer one half
pound of  macaroni,  in plenty of
 water,  till tender, but not broken; strain off the
 water.  Take the  yolks of five, and the
whites of two eggs;  one half pint of
 cream;   white meat  and
 ham,  chopped very fine; three spoonsful of
 grated cheese;  season with
 salt  and  pepper;  heat all
together, stirring constantly. Mix with the  macaroni; 
put in a buttered mould, and steam one hour. It is quite as good baked. 
 
 
  BAKED MACARONI. Boil half a pound of
 macaroni,  until quite soft; put it into a
 vegetable dish,  with a little
 mustard,   pepper  and
 salt,  a small piece of
 butter,  and some  grated
cheese.  Bake ten or fifteen minutes. 
 
 
  
 SALADS. 
 
  CHICKEN SALAD. 
 Miss L. Eight
 eggs;  one pint of  vinegar; 
one-half pound of  butter;  three tablespoonsful of
 olive oil;  sixteen teaspoonsful of  made
mustard;  one teaspoonful, each, of  red and black
pepper.  Beat the  eggs  very light; stir in
a tablespoonful of  salt;  add one half pint of
 vinegar;  one half pound of  melted
butter;  set the jar in a pot of  boiling
water;  stir well till cooked to a good thickness; take off the
fire, and stir in the rest of the  vinegar;  then add
the  pepper,   mustard,  and
 oil.  This quantity is sufficient for three
 chickens,  or one  turkey. 
After boiling the  chickens,  chop up, not too fine;
take equal quantities of  celery  and
 chicken;  put in  cabbage,  if
you like it. 
 
 
  CHICKEN SALAD. 
 Mrs. G. L. Phillips. For one
 chicken,  use six  eggs,  and
twice as much  celery  as
 chicken.  Beat the  eggs 
separately; one heaping teaspoonful of  mustard,  in
 yolks;  one and a half cups of
 vinegar;  one large spoonful of
 sugar;  lump of  butter  the
size of an egg; a little  cayenne pepper.  Cook the
dressing same as custard. Save a little for the top. 
  
 
  MAYONNAISE SALAD DRESSING. 
 Mrs. E. F. Stoddard. Into the
 yolk of one raw egg,  stir all the  olive
oil  it will hold; if dropped in very slowly, half a pint of
 oil  can be used; season with  cayenne
pepper,   salt  and
 mustard.  
 
 
  CHICKEN SALAD. 
 Mrs. R. R. Dickey. To one pint of
chopped  chicken  take one pint of chopped
 celery;  a heaping teaspoonful of
 mustard;  one and a half teacupsful of
 vinegar;  one tablespoonful of
 sugar,  and one of  melted
butter;  five  eggs  beaten separately; a
pinch of  cayenne pepper;   salt 
to taste. Mix  sugar,   vinegar, 
 mustard  and  eggs  together and
scald the dressing as you would float. One large
 chicken  will fill a pint cup. 
 
 
  SALAD DRESSING. 
 Mrs. G. L. Phillips. One teacupful of
 vinegar;  put it on to boil;  yolks of three
eggs  beaten with a desertspoonful of
 flour;  six mustardspoonsful of  mixed
mustard;  a pinch of  cayenne pepper;  three
tablespoonsful of  white sugar;  and three of
 salad oil;  two teaspoonsful of
 salt.  Beat all together and let cook until it
thickens; stirring all the time. 
 
 
  SALAD DRESSING. 
 Mrs. J. H. Pierce. Rub till smooth the
 yolks of five hard boiled eggs;  add five
tablespoonsful of  rich, sour cream,  thick enough to
heap upon the spoon; season with  salt, 
 pepper,  plenty of  mustard, 
and but little  vinegar.  Serve upon
 lettuce  alone; or add  cold chicken, or any
delicate meat or fish  cut small. 
 
 
  MUSTARD CABBAGE. 
 Mrs. A. F. Payne. Beat one
 egg  with a tablespoonful of
 sugar;  mix one teaspoonful of  mustard  in one half teacupful of
 vinegar;  add this to the  egg 
and  sugar  and boil until it is quite thick, stirring
all the time; pour while hot over finely cut  cabbage, 
previously salted. 
 
 
  LETTUCE SALAD. 
 Mrs. A. L. Stout. Cut two bunches of
 lettuce;  two tablespoonsful of
 mustard;  two of  catsup;  one
of  horseradish.  Mix with  yolks of two
eggs;  and  butter  the size of an egg; a
little  vinegar;  chop the  whites of the
eggs,  and mix all together. 
 
 
  CELERY SALAD. 
 Mrs. J. R. Young. One  head
of cabbage;  three  bunches of celery; 
chopped very fine. Take one teacupful of  vinegar;  a
lump of  butter  the size of an egg;  yolks
of two eggs;  one teaspoonful  mustard;  one
of  salt;  a pinch of  cayenne
pepper;  two teaspoonsful of  sugar.  Mix
these well; put the mixture on the  stove  and heat until
it thickens; stir it all the time; when cold, add two tablespoonsful of
 rich, sweet cream.  Pour this over your salad; and if
it does not make it moist enough, add a little  cold
vinegar.  
 
 
  POTATO SALAD. 
 Mrs. A. L. Stout. Take two large
 potatoes;  boil with the skins on; boil two
 onions.  When all is cold, cut the
 potatoes  about half an inch square; cut the
 onions  very fine; mix with them a handful of
 parsley,  cut into little pieces; also one large bunch
of  celery,  chopped. Put all together; then add
 pepper  and  salt  and wet with
about half a teacupful of  vinegar.  
 
 
  POTATO SALAD. 
 Mrs. Cady, Indianapolis. Boil four
 potatoes;  peel and slice; add half of a small
 onion,  cut fine; two small bunches of
 celery,  chopped fine; also
 whites of two hard boiled eggs.  The
 yolks  mixed with  mustard, 
 oil,   vinegar, 
 pepper  and  salt  to taste. 
 
 
  CELERY SLAW. 
 Miss Dryden. One half  head
of cabbage;  one  bunch of celery;  two
 hard boiled eggs,  all chopped fine. Mix with it two
teaspoonsful of  sugar;  two of
 mustard;  one-half of  pepper 
and  salt.  Moisten with
 vinegar.  
 
 
  COLE-SLAW. 
 Mrs. Dr. McDermont. Put two large 
 spoonsfuls 

of  cream  on to boil, with a wine-glass of
 vinegar;  beat the  yolks of three
eggs,  and stir in the  cream;  let it boil
a moment, then set away to cool. Chop fine a small sized  head of
cabbage,  and sprinkle it with  salt, 
 pepper  and  mustard.  Add the
 egg  mixture just before serving. 
 
 
  COLE-SLAW. 
 Mrs. Wm. Craighead. Beat the
 yolks of two eggs,  and half a pint of
 cream, or rich milk;  two 
 tablespoonsfuls 

of  sugar;  one of  mustard; 
four of  vinegar;  one teaspoonful  celery
seed;  two teaspoonsful  salt;  a little
 cayenne pepper;  a piece of
 butter  size of a walnut. Pour the mixture into a
 sauce pan;  stir constantly, until it boils. Chop your
 cabbage  fine, and pour the mixture over while hot. Let
it stand until cold, before sending to the table. 
 
 
  DRESSING FOR HOT SLAW. 
 Mrs. D. W. Iddings.  Yolks
of two eggs,  well beaten; one teaspoonful of
 salt  and  pepper;  one
tablespoonful of  sugar;  three of  melted
butter;  four of  vinegar;  two of
 water.  Let come to a boil. Then put in the
 cabbage  and boil. 
 
 
  
 PIES. 
 
  PASTRY. 
 Mrs. Eliza Pierce. One and a quarter
pounds of  flour;  one pound of
 shortening  (two-thirds  butter 
and one-third  lard);  wet sufficiently with
 cold water  and mix with a knife; stirring as little as
possible. This quantity will make five pies. 
 
 
  CELEBRATED PUFF PASTE. 
 Mrs. Jerome Buckingham. One pound of
 flour;  one pound  butter  and
one  egg.  Mix the  flour  with a
lump of  butter  the size of an egg, and the
 egg  to a very stiff paste with  cold
water;  knead well for ten or fifteen minutes; divide the
 butter  into six equal parts; squeeze the buttermilk
all out of the  butter;  roll the paste and spread on
one part of the  butter,  dredging it with
 flour;  repeat until all the
 butter  is rolled in. 
 
 
  PASTRY. 
 Mrs. James Turpin. One pound of
 flour;  one half pound of
 lard;  one quarter pound of
 butter.  Rub  lard  and
 flour  well together; add
 water  sufficient to make a dough; and roll out into a
thin sheet. Spread all the  butter  over it. Roll up the
paste into close folds as you would a sheet of music; fold over once, and roll
lightly. This quantity will make three pies. 
  
 
  PLAIN PIE CRUST. 
 Mrs. H. Strong. Three cups of
 flour;  one cup of  shortening; 
rub lightly through the  flour;  wet with
 cold water;  mould it as little as possible. This makes
crust for two pies. 
 
 
  TO ICE PIES.  White of one
egg  to one pie; beat up and spread on top crust with a
 feather,  after the pie is a little cool. Then spread
 sugar  on with  knife  dipped in
 hot water;  repeat several times. Set in a cool oven to
dry. 
 
 
  PLAIN PASTRY. 
 Mrs. James Stockstill. To one quart of
 flour;  one half teaspoonful of
 salt  and two tablespoonsful of  butter or
lard.  Rub lightly through the  flour  (it
is better to use a spoon); then add only enough  water 
to moisten. Take out on the board and roll very thin without kneading it;
spread with  butter  in bits; sprinkle with
 flour  and fold evenly and square. If you desire, it
can be rolled a second time. Before putting the top crust on the pie, wet with
 milk;  it improves the appearance. 
 
 
  POTATO PASTE. Boil and mash ten
 potatoes;  add a teaspoonful of
 salt;  a large spoonful of
 butter,  and one half cup of  milk or
cream;  then stiffen with  flour  until it
can be rolled out. This is nice for  pot-pie or apple
dumplings.  
 
 
  BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. Pare, quarter and
core the  apples;  put one tablespoonful of
 baking powder  in one quart of
 flour;  one teacupful of
 butter.  Mix with  milk;  make
stiffer than for biscuits; roll and cut in strips, and put around the pieces of
 apple.  Put in a pudding dish one quart of
 water;  one teacupful of
 sugar;  and a  small lump
of  butter;  set it on top of the stove, and let it come
to a boil; then put in the dumplings. Bake in a brisk oven. 
 
 
  BOILED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 
 Mrs. Isaac Van Ausdal. Pour on one
quart of  flour,  enough  boiling
water  to make a stiff paste; one teaspoonful of
 salt  in the  flour.  Roll the
paste half an inch thick. Cover the  apple,  and tie up
separately. Boil until tender. 
 
 
  STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 
 Mrs. H. Wyatt. Make a short pie crust;
roll two thicknesses, and sprinkle  flour  between them.
Bake together in a quick oven. Have the  berries 
sprinkled with  sugar.  As soon as the cake is done,
split open, and spread the  berries  over it, and
replace the cover. 
 
 
  STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 
 Mrs. W. R. S. Ayres. In one quart of
 flour,  mix one tablespoonful of  baking
powder,  and one teacupful of  butter; 
roll, and cut out with a bucket lid the size of a breakfast plate. Bake in a
quick oven.  Sugar  the  berries 
well, and mash them; spread between the cakes, and over the outside, after they
are put together. 
 
 
  PEACH PIE. Line your pans with
 paste;  pare and cut the
 peaches;  lay them in thickly, with pits upward;
sprinkle  sugar  over them, and bake without upper
crust.  When fresh fruit can not be obtained, canned will
answer.  
 
 
  CREAM PIE. One quart of
 milk;  two tablespoonsful of
 flour;  three of  sugar;  two of
 butter;  three  eggs; 
 vanilla,  to taste; bake with lower crust; beat  whites  to a
froth, and put in a little  sugar;  spread on, and let
it brown. 
 
 
  LEMON CREAM PIE. 
 Miss M. J. Dickson. One teacupful
 powdered sugar;  one tablespoonful
 butter;  one  egg;  the
 juice and grated rind of one lemon;  one teacupful of
 boiling water;  one tablespoonful of  corn
starch,  mixed in a little  cold water; 
cream the  butter  and  sugar 
together, and pour the hot mixture over them; when cool, add the
 lemon  and beaten  egg;  take
the inner rind of the lemon, and mince very small. Bake in an open shell. 
 
 
  LEMON PIE. 
 Mrs. A. DeGraff. Grate the outside of
three  lemons,  and squeeze the
 juice  separately; take two cups of  white
sugar;  one half cup of  butter;  six
 eggs,  beaten separately; beat to a cream, the
 butter,   sugar,  and outsides
of the  lemons;  add one cup of  sweet
milk,  and the  juice of the lemons.  Put
 whites of the eggs  in last. This will make three
pies. 
 
 
  LEMON PIE. 
 Mrs. J. W. S. Four ounces of
 butter;  one pint of  cream; 
nine  eggs;   juice and rind of two
lemons;  three-quarters of a pound of
 sugar.  
 
 
  IOWA LEMON PIE. 
 Mrs. J. .Baldwin. The
 juice and grated rinds of two lemons;  two cups of
 water;  two cups of  sugar;  one
small teacup of  butter;  two
 eggs;  two tablespoonsful of  corn
starch.  Boil the  water;  wet the
 corn starch  with a little  cold
water,  and stir in; when it boils, pour it on the
 sugar  and  butter;  when cool,
add the  eggs  and  lemon.  Bake
with two  crusts.  
  
 
  LEMON PIE. 
 Mrs. A. A. Butterfield. To the
 grated rind and juice of two lemons,  add one cup and a
half of  sugar;  two tablespoonsful of
 flour;  lump of  butter  the
size of an egg; four  eggs,  beaten separately; one pint
of  milk.  Stir all together, and bake. 
 
 
  SCOTCH PIE. 
 Miss Hannah C. Strong. Mince enough
ripe  apples  to fill a deep dish; then make a stiff
batter of one pint of  sweet milk;  two teaspoonsful of
 baking powder,  and  flour 
enough to make a batter; lastly a tablespoonful of  melted
butter.  With a  knife  spread the batter over
the  apples  and cook well. When done, turn into a
plate, leaving  apples  uppermost; season with
 sugar  and  butter.  
 
 
  COCOANUT PIE. 
 Mrs. T. A. Phillips. One large cup of
 grated cocoanut;  one quart of
 milk;  the  yolks of five eggs; 
a lump of  butter  size of a hickory-nut; sweeten to the
taste; beat the  whites of the eggs,  and bake over the
top, after the pie is done. 
 
 
  COCOANUT CUSTARD. 
 Mrs. Armstrong. One
 cocoanut;  one quart of  milk; 
three  eggs;  one  nutmeg;  a
little  cinnamon;  a little
 wine,   brandy  and
 rose water;  a piece of  butter 
size of an egg. Sweeten to taste; make like a custard; stir the
 cocoanut  in; bake in a
 crust.  
 
 
  CUSTARD PIE. Take three tablespoonsful of
 butter;  one  egg  beaten;
 grated lemon or nutmeg  to your taste; three
tablespoonsful of  flour;  a quart of  sweet
milk.  Put in part of the  milk  and mix
until smooth; then add the rest of the  milk;  bake it
on a  crust.  Beat the
 whites of two or three eggs  with
 sugar,  as for icing; with a little
 tartaric acid  in it. When the pies are baked, spread
the icing over them and put them back in the oven to brown; being careful not
to have it too hot. The above will make three pies. Pies you intend for the
second day, do not put on the icing until the morning before you use them. 
 
 
  A GOOD SUGGESTION. A bowl containing two
quarts of  hot water  set in the  oven of the
stove,  prevents any article from being scorched; such as cakes,
pies, &#38;c. 
 
 
  PUMPKIN PIE. To one pint of
 stewed pumpkin  take one quart of
 milk;  a pinch of  salt;  six
 eggs.   Ginger  and
 grated lemon or nutmeg  are good spices for the
pies. 
 
 
  HASTY PUMPKIN PIE. One pint of
 grated pumpkin (raw);  one quart of
 milk;  six  eggs; 
 sugar  and  spice  to taste.
Boil the  pumpkin  in the  milk 
until it swells; then let it get cold; add  eggs  and
 sugar  with any  spice  you
choose. 
 
 
  SQUASH PIE. 
 Mrs. Evans. Four pounds of
 squash;  one quart of  milk; 
four  eggs;  a pinch of  salt, 
 nutmeg,  and  sugar  to
taste. 
 
 
  ORANGE PIE. The  juice and part
of the rind of one orange;  two tablespoonsful of  corn
starch;  one teacupful of  hot water  with
one quarter box of  gelatine  dissolved in it; mix and
bake in one or two pies; to be eaten cold. 
 
 
  PINE APPLE PIE. To one teacupful of
 grated pineapple,  add one half teacupful of
 sugar.  Bake with  paste  top
and bottom thirty minutes. 
  
 
  POTATO PIE. 
 Mrs. Lucy Green. Scald one quart of
 milk;  grate in four large
 potatoes,  and four ounces of
 butter,  while the  milk  is
hot. When cold, add four  eggs  well beaten;
 spice  and sweeten to your taste; bake with under
 crust.  
 
 
  SWEET POTATO PIE. 
 Mrs. J. Stockstill. One pound of
 sweet potatoes,  boiled and rubbed through a
 sieve;  one half pound of
 butter;  one half pound of
 sugar;  quart of  milk;  seven
 eggs  beaten separately. Warm the
 butter  and  milk  and add other
ingredients;  nutmeg  and
 brandy  to taste. 
 
 
  MOCK APPLE PIE. One teaspoonful
 tartaric acid;  two cupsful pounded
 crackers;  two  eggs;  one and a
half cups of  sugar;  five cupsful of
 water.  Bake with two
 crusts.  
 
 
  APPLE CUSTARD PIE. Grate the
 apples;  then make a custard of one pint of
 milk;  three  eggs;  a pinch of
 salt;  small lump of  butter, 
and a little  grated cracker;   nutmeg, or
cinnamon.  This will make two pies. 
 
 
  APPLE JONATHAN. Take a small piece of
 bread dough;  work in  butter 
until quite short; then line the sides of a pie dish; fill with good cooking
 apples,  and cover with a pretty thick
 paste.  When baked, lift off the crust; turn it bottom
up on another dish; then put  sugar  and a small lump of
 butter  with the  apples,  mix
and spread on the crust; add  spice  if you like. To be
eaten warm with  cream.  
  
 
  MINCE MEAT. 
 Mrs. E. F. Stoddard. Two pounds of
 beef,  cooked and minced; one and one half pounds of
 beef suet;  two pounds of
 currants;  two pounds of
 raisins;  one half pound of
 citron;  two and one half pounds of
 apples,  chopped fine; two pounds of
 sugar;   juice of three lemons; 
one tablespoonful, each, of  cloves, 
 cinnamon,  and  nutmeg; 
 cider  to thin; use  brandy, 
and  sherry wine,  to taste, when making up the
pies. 
 
 
  MINCE MEAT. 
 Mrs. L. A. Tenney. Seven pounds of
 lean beef (a neck is best);  boil until very tender,
without  salt,  in a little
 water,  adding more if needed to prevent burning; save
one half pint of the liquor. When the  meat  is cold,
chop it fine; add to it six quarts of  tart apples;  two
quarts of  cider,  or  juice of spiced
fruit;  two quarts of  brown sugar;  one and
one half pints  New Orleans molasses;  two cups of
 strong green tea;  two pounds of chopped
 suet;  the  juice  of the
 meat;  one and one half 
 desert-spoonsful 

of  cloves,  two of  cinnamon; 
four  nutmegs;  a little  mace; 
four 
 desert-spoonsful 

of  salt  and three pounds of
 raisins.  Boil slowly one hour and a half, stirring
occasionally, to prevent burning. This will keep, in a  covered stone
jar,  without fermenting.  If too thick, when you make the
pies, warm and thin with a little  cider or fruit
juice.    A tablespoonful of  wine
or brandy,  poured into the pie, with
 nutmeg  grated over it, just before covering, is an
improvement.  
 
 
  MINCE MEAT. 
 Mrs. J. J. Patterson. Take two pounds
of finely  chopped beef,  of the best quality; four
pounds of  raisins,  after they are stoned; two of
 currants,  picked and dried; two and one half pounds of
 beef suet;  two pounds of
 apples,  after they are chopped; two pounds of  sugar;  one pint of
 wine,  and one of  brandy; 
 nutmeg,   cloves, 
 mace,  and  cinnamon,  and one
large piece of  citron,  cut up fine. 
 
 
  APPLE MINCE PIE. 
 Miss B. Pease. Twelve
 apples  (part sweet), chopped fine; six
 eggs,  well beaten; half a pint of
 cream;   raisins,  and
 spice.  
 
 
  MOCK MINCE PIE. One cup of
 vinegar;  two cups of  water; 
one cup of  sugar;  one of
 molasses;  one of chopped
 raisins;  two of  bread crumbs; 
one half cup of  butter,  and two
 eggs.   Spice  to suit taste.
Bake with upper and lower  crust.  
 
 
  
 PUDDINGS. 
 
  BOILING PUDDINGS. In boiling puddings, have
plenty of  water  in the pot boiling when the pudding
goes in, and do not let it stop. Have a teakettle of  boiling
water  at hand to add to as it evaporates. The pudding should be
frequently turned. When it is done, dip it in a pan of  cold
water,  to prevent its adhering to the cloth. In using
 pudding moulds,  grease well with
 butter;  tie lid on closely, and set in a pot with very
little  water,  and add more as it is needed. 
 
 
  PICCOLOMINI PUDDING. One pint of
 grated bread crumbs;  one quart of  sweet
milk;  the  yolks of four eggs;  one
teacupful of  sugar;  lump of
 butter  the size of an egg;  rind of one
lemon.  Bake in a dish, and let cool; spread
 fruit  over; add the beaten  whites of the
eggs;  five tablespoonsful of  sugar; 
 juice of one lemon.  Bake a few minutes. 
 
 
  BOILED BREAD PUDDING. Three-fourths of a
pound of  bread crumbs;  eight
 eggs,  beaten to a froth; three or four spoonsful of
 sugar;  one  nutmeg,  grated;
and one quart of  milk.  Boil, and pour on the
 bread.  Let it remain until one half of the
 milk  is soaked up; then stir in two tablespoonsful of  flour; 
one teaspoonful of  salt.  Put in a mould, and boil one
hour. To be eaten with  rich sauce.  
 
 
  CLEVELAND BISCUIT PUDDING. Grate
 stale bread, or light biscuit,  till you have six
heaping tablespoonsful of  crumbs;  sift them; beat six
 eggs  very light; stir into a pint of  cream
or rich sweet milk,  alternately with the crumbs, a little at a
time. Beat the mixture very hard and light; then
 butter  some  large breakfast
cups;  fill with the batter, and set immediately into an oven, and
bake half an hour. To be eaten with  wine sauce.  
 
 
  CRACKER PUDDING. Mix ten ounces of
 finely powdered crackers  with a wine-glass of
 wine;  a little  salt;  half a
 nutmeg;  three or four tablespoonsful of
 sugar,  and two of  butter. 
Beat eight  eggs  to a froth; mix with three pints of
 milk.  Pour over the  crackers, 
and let stand till soft; then bake. 
 
 
  MINUTE PUDDING. 
 Mrs. E. E. B. Eight tablespoonsful of
 flour;  one pint of  milk 
(cold); a small quantity of  salaratus,  dissolved in
the  milk;  sift in  flour  to
the consistency of thin  starch;  add four
 eggs,  well beaten. Bake in a quick oven, and eat with
 cream sauce.  
 
 
  VIRGINIA PUDDING. One teacupful of
 butter;  one teacupful of
 sugar;  one teacupful of
 molasses;  two and one half cups of
 flour;  four  eggs;  two
teaspoonsful of  soda;  add
 spice  to taste. Bake one hour. To be eaten with
 wine sauce.  
 
 
  CREAM PUDDING. 
 Miss Mary E. Mitchell. One pint of
 flour;  same of  sweet milk; 
seven  eggs;  three tablespoonsful of  white
sugar,  and one of  melted butter;  one pint of  sweet cream.  Mix
 milk  and  flour  together until
smooth. Beat  eggs  and  sugar 
together to a froth; then add to the batter; then the
 butter  and a pinch of  salt; 
lastly add the  cream,  and bake from three quarters to
one hour. Serve hot with  sauce.  It is best baked in
cups. 
 
 
  GELATINE PUDDING. Two tablespoonsful of
 gelatine;  pour over it one pint of  boiling
water,  and sweeten to taste. Prepare this at night, and keep in a
cool place. In the morning make a custard of one pint of
 milk  and three  eggs,  using
 yolks  only, and  sugar.  Beat
the  whites  to a stiff froth; and just before serving,
cut the jelly in small squares; pour over the  whites of the
eggs  first, and then the custard. It is better to let the jelly
form in the dish in which it is to be served. 
 
 
  SNOW PUDDING. 
 Miss Hattie Brown. One quart of
 milk;  three tablespoonsful of
 flour;  four  eggs;  boil the
 milk,  leaving out sufficient to moisten the
 flour;  beat the  eggs,  leaving
out the  whites  of three for the top; mix the moistened
 flour  and  eggs  thoroughly
together; add a little  salt;  pour the
 boiling milk  over it (stirring gently at the same
time); pour into  pudding dish;  bake about fifteen
minutes; not too fast; then beat the three  whites;  add
a teacupful  powdered sugar;  a little  lemon
or vanilla extract,  and pour over the pudding as it comes from the
oven. To be served warm. 
 
 
  TAPIOCA SNOW PUDDING. 
 Mrs. A. A. Butterfield. Three
tablespoonsful  tapioca  soaked four hours, or over
night; a quart of  milk;  boil half an hour; one half
teaspoonful of  salt;  one half teacupful
 sugar;  and the beaten  yolks of three
eggs;  flavor to taste. As soon as this thickens like custard,
remove from the fire and stir in the  whites,  beaten stiff; then pour into the dish for the table and set
away to cool. 
 
 
  GELATINE SNOW PUDDING. One quarter of a box
of  Cox's gelatine;  one heaping cup of
 sugar;  one large  lemon;  the
 whites of five eggs.  Pour over the
 gelatine  one-fourth of a pint of  cold
water;  let it soak until it is soft; then pour over half a pint of
 boiling water;  let it thoroughly dissolve and stand
until cold but not stiff; when it begins to stiffen, add the  whites
of the eggs  beaten to a stiff froth. Whip well together and turn
into a mould and set on the  ice;  make a
 boiled custard,  flavored with
 vanilla,  and pour over it. 
 
 
  FULLER PUDDING. 
 Mrs. Dr. Craighead. One cup of
 molasses;  two-thirds cup of
 butter;  one of  water;  one
teaspoonful  soda;  two of
 cloves;  one of  salt;  four
even cups of  flour;  steam two or three hours;
 fruit  if you like. 
 
 
  DORRIT PUDDING. 
 Mrs. T. A. Phillips. Three cups of
 flour;  one cup of  milk;  one
cup of  molasses;  one of chopped
 suet;  one of  raisins;  two
teaspoonsful  cinnamon;  one of
 cloves;  two teaspoonsful
 soda.  Boil three hours. 
 
 
  PLUM PUDDING. One pound of
 raisins;  one of  currants;  one
of  suet;  one quarter pound of
 citron;  four  eggs;  one
teaspoonful of  cloves;  two of
 cinnamon;  one half of  nutmeg, 
grated; wine glass of  brandy;  one teaspoonful of
 salt;  one cup of  sugar;  one
of  milk;   flour  enough to make
a thick batter.  Butter  a  pudding
mould,  and boil four hours. Pour a little
 spirits  over the pudding, and bring to the table
burning. 
  
 
  ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 
 Mrs. Dr. Gundry. Two and one half
pounds of  raisins;  two of
 currants;  two of fine  moist
sugar;  two of  bread crumbs;  two of
 suet;  six ounces of  candied lemon
peel;  one of  ground nutmeg;  one of
 cinnamon;  one half ounce of
 almonds;  one half pint of
 brandy;   rind of two lemons. 
Well  butter  and  flour  the
 pudding cloth.  The  water  should
be boiling when the pudding is put in. Boil eight or nine hours, or divide it
and boil six hours. 
 
 
  BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. Boil one pint of
 milk;  while boiling, stir in one large teacupful of
 Indian meal;  cool a little, and add three
 eggs,  well beaten; one pint of  cold
milk;  one tablespoonful of  flour;  one
half cup  sugar;  one half cup
 molasses;  one teaspoonful of
 ginger;  one of  cinnamon;  a
little  salt.  Bake one hour and a half. 
 
 
  BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 
 Mrs. Evans. One pint of
 corn meal,  scalded; two thirds of a cup of
 molasses;  a little  cinnamon, 
and  salt;  two  eggs,  beaten
together (if not eggs, one teaspoonful of  soda);  make
a thick batter. Put in a  mould,  and boil several
hours. 
 
 
  TAPIOCA PUDDING. 
 Miss Armstrong. One cup
 tapioca,  soaked several hours in
 water;  drain, and rub fine; one quart of
 milk;  let come to a boil; add a little
 salt;  then stir the  yolks of six
eggs,  well beaten, with one and a half cupsful of
 sugar;  stir in the  milk;  let
it boil to the consistency of custard; then add the
 tapioca,  and let it boil ten minutes, stirring all the
time; it must not be too thick; flavor with  vanilla. 
When the pudding is cool, cover it with the  whites of the
eggs  beaten, with a cupful of  white sugar;  put in the  oven, 
and bake to a light brown. This can be made the day before using. 
 
 
  BAKED TAPIOCA. 
 Mrs. Mary Gebhart. Soak six
tablespoonsful of  tapioca  over night, in about one
quart of  water.  In the morning, stand it over the fire
until it becomes like  starch;  then add the
 juice and rind of one lemon,  and one cup of
 sugar.  Pare  apples;  put them
in the pudding dish, and pour the  tapioca  over them.
Bake until the  apples  are soft. Serve with
 cream.  
 
 
  APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 
 Mrs. Henry Stoddard. Put a teacupful
of  tapioca  in a quart of  cold
water;  let it stand from three to five hours; put it into a
 stew pan,  on a hot  stove,  and let
it boil thoroughly for fifteen minutes, or until it looks perfectly clear; stir
constantly, thinning it from time to time with  boiling
water,  so that when done it will run from a spoon; then season
well with  salt,  and add four tablespoonsful of
 white sugar.  Half fill a glass dish in which the
pudding is to be served, with  coddled apples, 
sprinkling ground  cinnamon  over the top; then pour
over it the  tapioca  while still hot. When cold, serve
with  cream.  
 
 
  TAPIOCA PUDDING. 
 Miss Drusie Harris. One large cup of
 tapioca  soaked over night; six large
 apples,  peeled and cored; fill the
 apples  with  butter  and
 sugar.  After arranging them in a pan, pour
 tapioca  over them, with an additional cup of
 water.  Bake. 
 
 
  BOILED TAPIOCA. 
 Mrs. W. A. B. One teacupful
 tapioca  soaked over night in one pint of
 water;  six large  tart apples 
sliced thin. Put them in layers in a
 milk boiler  and boil two hours. Serve with
 cream,   sugar  and
 nutmeg.  
 
 
  RICE PUDDING. Put one half cupful of
 rice  into a dish; cover up with
 water  and soak over night. In the morning drain off
the  water;  add two quarts of
 milk;  a pinch of  salt;  two
tablespoonsful of  sugar;  one tablespoonful
 vanilla;  a few lumps of
 butter.  Stir this well and place in the
 oven.  To be eaten cold. 
 
 
  LEMON RICE PUDDING. Boil one teacupful of
 rice  in one pint of  water 
till dry; add one quart of  new milk,  and boil till
thick; then add the  yolks of three eggs  well beaten;
six tablespoonsful of  sugar;  the  rind of
one lemon;  beat together, and put in a  pudding
dish;  beat the  whites  to a stiff froth;
then add six tablespoonsful of  sugar;  the
 juice of the lemon;  spread it on the pudding, and put
in the oven to brown. 
 
 
  RICE MERINGUES. 
 Miss B. Pease. One teacupful of
 rice  boiled soft; when cold, add one quart of
 milk;  the  yolks of three
eggs;  three tablespoonsful of  sugar,  and
a little  nutmeg.  Pour in a dish and bake half an hour;
when partly baked, stir a few large  raisins  through
it. When cold, beat the  whites of the eggs  with two
tablespoonsful of  sugar;  spread over the
 rice  and bake a light brown. 
 
 
  FRUIT RICE PUDDING. Put a teacupful of
 rice  in a quart of  milk,  and
boil slowly till soft; add a little  salt;  a teacupful
of  cream,  and  sugar  enough to
sweeten it. Have ready, in a deep dish,  any kind of fruit, cherries
blackberries, apricots, apples or peaches,  cut up and well
sweetened (uncooked). Spread the  rice  roughly over,
and bake slowly two hours. 
  
 
  FARINA PUDDING. 
 Kate P. Brown. To one quart of
 milk,  three tablespoonsful of
 farina,  and two  eggs.  Put the
 eggs,   milk,  and
 raisins  on together, and let them scald; then add the
 farina,  and let it cook twenty minutes; sweeten, and
flavor to taste. 
 
 
  FLORENTINE PUDDING. 
 Mrs. J. W. Stoddard. One quart of
 milk;  five  eggs;  three
tablespoonsful of  corn starch;  three tablespoonsful of
 white sugar.  Boil the  milk; 
dissolve the  starch  in a little
 milk,  and stir into the boiling
 milk,  with the  yolks  and
 sugar.  Bake twenty minutes. Spread with the
 whites of the eggs.  
 
 
  CORN STARCH PUDDING. Heat one quart of
 milk  to boiling, then stir in slowly one cupful of
 corn starch;  mix with this about six good
 apples,  pared and sliced; add two tablespoonsful of
 sugar;  one of  butter,  and a
little  spice.  Pour the whole in a dish and bake forty
minutes. 
 
 
  VALISE PUDDING. Make a  light
biscuit dough;  roll out, and spread on one quart of
 seeded cherries;  fold over, and fasten the edges
closely, to secure the syrup. Sew up in a  pudding cloth, 
previously wrung out of  hot water,  and dredged with
 flour.  Put in  boiling water, 
and boil one hour and a half.  Any other  fresh
fruit  may be used in the same way.  Serve with
 butter  and  sugar.  
 
 
  WAPSIE PUDDING. Take one pint of
 sour cream,  with a little
 soda,  and  flour  enough,
stirred in, to form a batter. Fill a pan with nice  baking
apples,  not packed too closely; pour the batter over, and bake
till brown. Eat with  cream  and
 sugar.  
  
 
  SPONGE PUDDING. Six
 eggs;  the weight of five in
 sugar;  the weight of three in
 flour;  one teaspoonful of  baking
powder.  Steam in a  pudding mould  one and
one half hours. 
 
 
  BATTER FRUIT
PUDDING.  Butter  thickly a pudding dish that
will hold a pint and one half; fill it nearly full of good  baking
apples,  cut up fine. Pour over them a batter made with four
tablespoonsful of  flour,  three
 eggs,  and one-half pint of
 milk.  Tie a buttered and floured cloth over the dish
(which ought to be quite full), and boil the pudding one and one quarter hours;
turn it out into a hot dish, and strew  sugar  thickly
over it. 
 
 
  HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. One pint of best
 Orleans molasses;  a pinch of
 salt;  one teaspoonful  cloves; 
one of  cinnamon  and one of
 soda  dissolved in a teacupful of  sweet
milk;   flour  enough to make it the
consistency of pound cake; one quart of  huckleberries; 
boil two and a half hours in a  pudding mould.  Eat with
 cream  and  sugar,  or
 pudding sauce.  
 
 
  SEVEN-CENT PUDDING. One pint of
 flour;  one teacupful of
 sugar;  one of  sweet milk;  one
 egg;   butter  size of an egg;
one teacupful  currants,  and one half teaspoonful
 baking powder;  spread over with  melted
butter;  sprinkle with  cinnamon.  To be
eaten warm with  sauce.  
 
 
  DRIED FRUIT PUDDING. Take half pound of
 suet  chopped fine; four teacupsful of
 flour,  and five  eggs.  Beat
these very light; then add a quart of  milk  and one
half teaspoonful of  salt.  Rub three teacupsful of
 raisins  in  flour,  and stir
in; scald the  pudding bag  and
 flour  it; allow room for the pudding to swell. Boil
three hours.   Dried cherries or pared dried
peaches  can be used instead of
 raisins.   
  
 
  DRIED FRUIT PUDDING. One pint of
 flour;  one pint of  milk;  made
into a batter; then add one pint of  suet;  one of cut
 peaches;  one of  raisins;  one
of  currants or dried cherries.  Tie up well in a
floured cloth; put in  boiling water  and boil three
hours. 
 
 
  EVE'S PUDDING. Six large
 apples  pared and chopped; six tablespoonsful of
 grated bread;  six tablespoonsful of
 sugar;  six of  currants;  six
 eggs;   citron  to taste; a
wine-glass of  wine;  a tablespoonful of
 mixed nutmeg,   cinnamon,  and
 cloves;  a quarter of a pound of
 butter,  and three tablespoonsful of
 flour.  Put in a  pudding mould 
and boil three hours; use  cold sauce.  
 
 
  MERANGUE PUDDING. 
 Miss Carrie Brown. Bake a
 sponge cake  in  jelly-cake pans; 
spread with  strawberry jam or other fruit;  make the
layers of the  fruit  as thick as the layers of the
cake; spread over the top and sides the  whites of three
eggs  beaten to a froth; and mix with them at the moment of using
three tablespoonsful of  powdered sugar;  place in the
 oven  a moment or two to brown. 
 
 
  YOUNG AMERICA PUDDING. 
 Mrs. William Heisley. One teacupful of
 sugar;  three  eggs;  one
tablespoonful of  butter;  three tablespoonsful of
 sweet milk;  one tablespoonful of  baking
powder;   flour  enough to make it the
consistency of sponge cake. Divide in three parts and bake quickly in
 jelly-cake pans;  spread  fruit or
jelly  between each layer; serve with  warm
sauce.  
 
 
  JELLY-CAKE PUDDING. 
 Mrs. E. F. Stoddard. One cup of
 butter;  two cups of  sugar; 
three and a half cups of  flour;  four
 eggs;  one cup of  sour cream; 
one teaspoonful of  soda; 
bake in two pans. For the jelly make a custard of one pint of
 milk;  three  eggs;  two
tablespoonsful of  white sugar;  one tablespoonful of
 flour;  flavor with  vanilla or fine
brandy.  After the  milk  boils, stir in the
other ingredients and let it get very thick. Open the cake when hot and put
half the custard into each. To be eaten cold with
 cream.  
 
 
  SAVOY PUDDING.  Stale sponge or
other plain cake  may be made into a nice pudding by crumbling it
into a little more than a pint of  milk,  with two or
three beaten  eggs,  and baking it.
Sauce-- Sugar  and  butter 
beaten together. 
 
 
  SPANISH CHARLOTTE. Place  crumbs
of stale cake or rolled crackers  on the bottom of a
 pudding dish,  and put a layer of any kind of
 jelly or fruit  over them. Continue them alternately
until the dish is nearly full, making the crumbs form the top. Pour a custard
over it and bake; serve with  sauce.  
 
 
  TIPSY CHARLOTTE. 
 Miss Drusie Harris. One large
 stale sponge cake;  one pint of  rich sweet
cream;  one cup of  sherry wine;  one fourth
of a box of  Cox's gelatine,  soaked in a cup of
 cold water  two hours; one teaspoonful of
 vanilla, or bitter almond;  three  eggs, the
whites and yolks  beaten together very light; one pint of
 milk,  and one cup of  sugar. 
Heat the  cream  almost to boiling; put in the soaked
 gelatine,  and one half cup of
 sugar,  and stew until dissolved. Remove from the fire;
flavor; and, when cool, beat to a standing froth. Cut off the top of the cake
in one piece, and remove the middle, leaving the sides and bottom
three-quarters of an inch thick. Over the inside, pour the
 wine  in spoonsful, that all may be evenly moistened;
fill with the  whipped cream;  replace the top, which
should also be moistened with the  wine,  and set in
a cold place. Serve with it, or pour around it, a
custard made of the  eggs, 
 milk,  and the other half cup of
 sugar.  
 
 
  LEMON PUDDING. 
 Mrs. J. R. Young. One half of a pound
of  flour;  one half of a pound of
 suet,  cut very fine; one half of a pound of
 sugar;  the  rind of two
lemons,  and the  yolks of two eggs.  Boil
it four hours in a  mold.  Serve without sauce. 
 
 
  ORANGE PUDDING. Grate the  rind,
and squeeze the juice of two large oranges;  stir to a
 cream,  one half pound of
 butter  with one half pound of  powdered
sugar;  add a wine glass of  mixed rum  and
 brandy;  beat very lightly, six
 eggs;  stir them gradually into the mixture. Put into a
buttered dish with broad edge, around which lay a border of  puff
paste.  Bake half an hour; and, when cold,  grate
sugar  over it. 
 
 
  COCOANUT PUDDING. 
 Mrs. Munger. Nearly two quarts of
 milk;  six  eggs;  one
 cocoanut, grated;   sugar  to
taste; one teacupful of  butter;  add
 nutmeg,  after it is placed in the oven. Stir once or
twice as soon as it commences to form. 
 
 
  RICH COCOANUT PUDDING. 
 Mrs. J. W. Stoddard. One quarter of a
pound of  butter;  the  yolks of five
eggs;  one quarter of a pound of  sugar; 
beat the  butter  and  sugar 
together; add a little of the  cocoanut  at a time, and
one half teacupful of  cream.  Don't bake too long, or
it will destroy the flavor. After it is baked, beat the  whites of
the eggs,  with four or five tablespoonsful of
 sugar;  spread over the pudding, and bake a light
brown. 
  
 
  GERMAN CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 
 Mrs. S. B. Smith. Two ounces of
 grated chocolate;  two ounces, or four tablespoonsful,
of  flour;  the  yolks of four
eggs;  one pint of  milk;  two ounces of
 butter.  Put the  butter  over
the fire to melt; when hot add the other ingredients, and stir till it
thickens; when cool add the  yolks of four more eggs; 
beat the  whites of the eight eggs,  and add them.
Butter a pan, and, after putting in the pudding,  sift
sugar  over the top, and bake one half of an hour. It rises like a
batter pudding, and must be sent to the table hot as soon as it is taken from
the  oven.  Put more  sugar  in the
 milk,  and use more  chocolate, 
if desired. 
 
 
  CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 
 Mrs. James Stockstill. Not quite one
quarter of a pound of  Baker's chocolate,  scraped and
dissolved slowly in one quart of  milk;  sweeten to
taste, and flavor with  vanilla.  Beat the
 yolks of three eggs,  with one half tablespoonful of
 corn starch.  When the
 chocolate  boils, stir in and boil up once; pour in a
dish (to be brought to the table). Beat the  whites  and
spread on the top with  cracked almonds  and
 coarse sugar  sprinkled over; brown slightly. 
 
 
  CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 
 H. Maillard. Scrape very fine two
ounces of  Maillard's single, double or tripple vanilla
chocolate  and add it to half a teaspoonful of  powdered
cinnamon.  Put it into a pan; pouring over it one quart of
 new milk;  stirring it until it boils; and adding by
degrees four ounces of  sugar;  milling the
 chocolate  until it is smooth and light; then pour it
out to cool. Beat eight  eggs  to a froth; mix them with
the  chocolate;  pour into a buttered dish and bake
three quarters of an hour. Serve cold with  sifted
sugar  over it. 
  
 
  LEMON SAUCE. 
 Mrs. J. J. P. One large coffee cup of
 white sugar;  half the  rind of one lemon;
one teaspoonful of juice;  a lump of
 butter  the size of an egg; one half pint of
 water;  add a teaspoonful of  corn
starch  mixed with a little  water;  let all
simmer, but not boil. 
 
 
  ORANGE CHEESE CAKE. 
 Mrs. Crane. One-third of a pound of
 butter;  one third of a pound of
 sugar;  three  eggs;  wine glass
of  milk or cream;  the  rind of an orange
grated;  one half of a  nutmeg grated;  one
tablespoonful of  brandy;  two of  rose
water;  two ounces of  sponge cake.  Pour
the  cream or milk  over the cake to moisten it; then
stir this with  sugar  and
 butter;  beat your  eggs;  mash
the cake very fine and mix all together with the
 brandy  and  spice. 
  Lemons  can be used in the same way; only add the
 juice of half a lemon.   Serve with
 sauce.  
 
 
  CREAM SAUCE. One cup of
 milk;  one of  sugar;  three
tablespoonsful of  corn starch;  boil it a few minutes;
then add one tablespoonful of  butter  and two of
 brandy.  
 
 
  PUDDING SAUCE. One cup of
 sugar;  a little less than one half cup of
 butter;  work together until smooth; add a wine glass
of  wine;  flavor with  nutmeg, 
and stir in boiling  milk  until the whole is of the
consistency of thick cream. Send to the table, and stir well when served. Don't
put the  wine  in until perfectly cold. 
 
 
  PUDDING SAUCE. One fourth of a cup of
 butter;  one cup of  sugar; 
 yolk of one egg;  one half glass of
 wine;  one half teaspoonful of
 flour;  beat well together; then pour on a teacupful of
 boiling water.  Let it simmer. 
  
 
  FOAM SAUCE. One cup of
 sugar;  two  eggs;  three
tablespoonsful of  cold water;  set over a
 teakettle  of  boiling water; 
stir all the time, till well cooked. Then put a piece of
 butter  size of an egg in a bowl, and pour the mixture
over it. Flavor to taste. 
 
 
  SNOW SAUCE. One cup of
 sugar;  one half cup of
 butter;   yolk of one egg;  one
glass of  wine or brandy.  Heat the
 wine  before mixing, and, when ready to send to the
table, beat the  white of the egg  very light, and put
on top of the sauce. 
 
 
  SAUCE FOR MINUTE PUDDING. Four heaping
tablespoonsful of  sugar;  one of
 flour;  two of  butter.  Beat
all together until like cream. Just before using, stir in  boiling
water  to make it the consistency of
 starch.  Flavor with  vanilla, 
the last thing. 
 
 
  HARD SAUCE. 
 Mrs. C. Wright. Stir to a cream one
cup of  butter  and three cups of
 sugar;  add one half cup of
 wine;  one teaspoonful of  lemon
essence;   cinnamon  and
 nutmeg  to suit the taste. Beat till light and creamy;
smooth into shape, and put upon the  ice  until the
pudding is served. 
 
 
  WHITE SAUCE. Make a rich syrup of
 white sugar;  boil it; and put in  ground
cinnamon  and  nutmeg  while boiling. Serve
hot. 
 
 
  SAUCE FOR MERANGUE PUDDING. One half pint
of  water;  one quarter pound of  white
sugar;  one quarter pound of  butter  rubbed
into a tablespoonful of  flour;  boil a short time;
adding a sliced  lemon  just before taking from
fire. 
  
 
  PUDDING SAUCE. 
 Mrs. Henry Stoddard. One pint of
 wine;  the  yolks of six eggs, 
and the  whites  of three; a sufficient quantity of
 lemon;   ground cinnamon  and
 sugar  to taste. Heat the whole over the fire, but
don't let it boil. Serve hot. 
 
 
  VINEGAR SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS. One cup of
 brown sugar;  one of  water; 
pinch of  salt;  one spoonful of
 butter;  a few drops of  essence of
lemon;  one spoonful of  vinegar.  Beat
 butter,   sugar, 
 lemon,   vinegar,  and
 flour  well together; pour the
 water  boiling on them, and let it scald up. 
 
 
  
 The following 38 recipes within this chapter are handwritten. 
 Fruit Cake 
 2 cups butter-- 4 cups sugar 6 do flour (or 8) 1 1/2 cups sweet milk -- 12.
Eggs -- 1 teaspoon soda -- 2 do cream tartar -- 4 do cloves -- 4 do cinnamon --
2 do allspice -- 2 do nutmegs -- 1 lb. citron -- 3 lb raisins -- 2 lb currants
-- Brandy 
 Mrs. Custers Silver Cake 
 1 cup butter -- 2 do sugar -- 3 do flour less 1 tablespoonful -- 1/2 cup
sweet milk -- 1/2 teaspoonful soda -- 1 teaspoonful Cream tartar -- Lemon to
taste -- Whites of 8 eggs beaten to a stiff froth The cup of butter to be full
and solid and with the sugar worked to a cream-- Then put in the milk -- then
the flour, add whites last-- Gold cake to be made same way using the
yolks  
 Silver Cake (Vancouver) 
 2 cups sugar -- 1/2 do butter -- 2 1/2 do sifted flour -- 3/4 do sweet milk
-- Whites of 8 eggs -- stir butter and sugar to a cream -- then add the Whites
well beaten to a froth, add the flour, then the milk -- stir the whole several
moments. 
 Gold Cake. (Vancouver) 
 Take the yolks of the eggs and beat to a stiff froth -- 1 1/2 cups sugar 3/4
cup butter beat to a cream -- 2 do sifted flour-- 1/2 cup sweet milk -- a
little soda or yeast powder 
 French Cake (Vancouver) 
 2 cups white sugar 3 do flour -- 1/2 cup butter 1 small cup sweet milk -- 4
eggs 1 tea-spoon soda-- do cream tartar-- little spice to taste.  
 Custard Cake 
 1 cup butter stirred with 2 cups sugar to a cream -- 1 cup sweet milk -- 5
eggs beaten separate or the whites of ten-- 1 teaspoon soda 2 do cream tartar
dissolved-- 4 cups flour or enough to make it stiff enough, flavor to suit the
taste. To be baked in jelly cake pans-- The custard, to put it together with,
is nuts or currants chopped fine and one pint sweet milk-- 2 eggs stirred up
with 3 spoonfuls corn starch guess at the sugar and flavor to suit taste. Let
the milk come to a boiling heat and stir in the balance until thick like
custard. 
 Roll Jelly Cake (Vancouver) 
 2 spoonsfuls sour milk-- 2 do sweet milk-- 1 cup sugar-- 1 cup flour--
essence-- 3 eggs beaten separate  
 Pork Cake (Vancouver) 
 1 po pork chopped fine-- 1 do raisins 1/4 " citron-- 1/2 pint molasses-- 1/2
pt brown sugar-- 1/2 pt boiling water poured on the pork-- 1 teaspoon each of
soda-- alspice-- cloves- cinnamon &#38; nutmeg. 1 quart flour more or less--
according to the judgment-- 
 Kentucky Pound Cake (Sarah) 
 3 cups sugar-- 2 do butter-- 4 cups sifted flour, heaping, 2/3 cup sour
milk-- 1/2 teaspoon soda-- 9 eggs-- mix sugar and butter to a cream -- then
stir 3 eggs and one teacup flour alternate -- (most beat the eggs) adding milk
last Stir eggs &#38; flour well before adding the next 3 eggs &#38;
flour.  
 Corn Starch Cake 
 Whites of 6 eggs-- 2 cups sugar-- 1 do butter-- 1 sweet milk-- 2 do flour--
1 do corn starch. 1 teaspoon cream tartar 1/2 do soda-- First whip the butter
to a cream. then add sugar &#38; whip again-- then add milk with soda
dissolved-- Mix flour and cream tartar and sift. Then add alternate flour, eggs
until you have a cake-- after which you can boil or bake to your taste. 
 Cocoanut or Custard Cake (Ettenscroll) 
 1 cup butter stirred with 2 do sugar 1 teaspoon soda-- &#38; 2 cream tartar
dissolved in 1 cup sweet milk-- 5 eggs beaten separate or the whites of ten--
see 2nd page back for balance of this    
 Fruit Cake. (Vancouver) 
 1 po sugar-- 1 do flour-- 1 do butter-- 2 do seeded Raisins-- 2 do
currants-- 1 po citron-- 10 0r 12 eggs-- 1 teaspoon soda 1/2 cup molasses--
Mace, nutmegs-- cloves cinnamon-- lemon 1 cup good brandy and some
rosewater. 
 Coffee Cake 
 3 cups brown sugar 1. do butter-- 5 eggs-- 1 do strong coffee (liquid) 1
tea-spoonful soda-- 4 cups flour with 2 tea spoon cream tartar in it 2 tea
spoon cloves-- do cinnamon-- 2 do nutmeg. 
 Loaf Cake 
 3 pds flour-- 1 pt sweet milk-- 1/2 po lard-- 3/4 po butter-- 1 1/2 po
sugar-- 5 eggs beat separately 1 1/2 pd Raisins-- 1 1/2 tea spoon soda 1/2 pint
brandy-- flavor to taste.  
 Lemon Cake 
 4 tumblers flour-- 2 1/2 do sugar 2/3 do butter-- 1 do milk-- juice &#38;
rind of 2 lemons-- 3 eggs 1 heaping tea-spoonful saleratus 
 Sponge Cake (Sargent) 
 2 cups sugar-- pour over it a very little cold water-- and let it dissolve
while beating the whites of six eggs-- then beat the yolks with the sugar and
slowly beat in 3 cups of flour-- stir in the whites last. Stir as little as
possible after adding the whites-- Bake in one or two pans 
 Soda Cake 
 2 eggs-- 2 cups flour-- 1 cup sugar 1/2 do butter-- 1/2 tea spoon soda-- 1
do cream tartar-- 1/2 cup milk-- flavor with vanilla or peach  
 Sponge Cake (Mallory) 
 6 eggs-- yolks beaten separate &#38; mixed with 1 pt sugar-- 1/2 pint cold
water. 1 pint flour the whites beaten stiff and added last-- sprinkle sugar
over top before putting in the oven. 
 Sponge Cake (Fairfield) 
 1 cup sugar-- put with 1/2 cup water, set it on fire and let it boil, while
beating 5 eggs. Then slowly mix the hot sugar with the eggs &#38; add one cup
flour. 
 Cocoanut Cake 
 1 pd sugar 1/2 pd butter 3/4 pd flour-- 6 eggs. 1 grated cocoanut. Beat
butter &#38; sugar to a cream add yolks well beaten, then the whites beaten to
a stiff froth-- then flour-- and last the cocoanut  
 Sponge Cake (Fairfield) 
 Take 2 cups sugar pour in it a very little cold water &#38; let stand while
beating 6 eggs-- beat the yolks first &#38; put them with the sugar. Beat the
whites to a stiff froth, then stir into the sugar and yolks slowly 3 cups of
flour-- Stir it well then add the whites last &#38; stir as little as possible.
Put it in one or two pans and bake slowly until done 
 White Cake (Mrs. S. Migton) 
 Whites of 10 eggs-- 1 cup sweet milk-- 1 butter 2. sugar. 4 flour-- 2 tea
spoonful baking powder-- Stir butter and sugar to a cream-- Sift the baking
powder in the flour-- and add it to the cream alternately with the milk-- add
the whites last, after being beaten to a stiff froth  
 Lemon Pie 
 1/2 Tea cup water. 1 Lemon 5 eggs-- 1 large spoon melted butter. 1 cup brown
sugar. Squeeze the juice and grate the rind of the lemon. Stir together the
yolks. Sugar-- butter, juice and rind. Cover a plate with pastry, pour in the
mixture and bake until the pastry is done-- beat the whites to a stiff froth,
add 4 spoonsful white sugar put it on the pie and place it in the oven until it
is a delicate brown-- 
 Cocoanut Pie 
 1 good sized cocoanut peeled and grated. 1 quart mild, sweetened like
custard, butter the size of a walnut in each pie, 4 eggs to the quart. 
 Muffins 
 Melt half teacup of butter in pint &#38; 1/2 of milk-- add little salt, gill
of yeast 4 eggs stir in flour to make a batter. rather stiffer than for griddle
cakes. Keep moderately warm, and it will raise enough in 8 or 9 hours  
 Boston Brown Bread 
 
  1 heaping quart of rye flour  1 " Indian
meal  1 " graham flour  scanty quart milk  do
warm water  1 coffee cup molasses   
 1 penny worth of 1 coffee cup home made yeast -- tea spoonful saternalus --
desert spoon salt -- Grease an Iron Kettle-- put in the mixture and place
immediately in a slow oven &#38; bake six hours. or-- see 2nd page forwards 
 Cream Cake 
 1 tea cup cream-- 2 do sugar-- 3 well beaten eggs-- tea spoon soda. dissolve
in wine glass milk-- butter size 1/2 an egg-- flour to make thick as pound
cake-- add raisins and spice to taste &#38; wine &#38; brandy if you like 
 Mountain Cake 
 1 cup sugar-- 2 eggs-- 1/2 cup butter, do milk or water. 2 cups flour
teaspoonful a tartar 1/2 T spoonful soda-- nutmeg  
 Sweet Potatoe Cake 
 1/2 po grated raw sweet potatoe. 8 eggs 1/2 po white sugar-- handful sifted
flour-- 1 grated nutmeg-- stir well and bake thoroughly in a quick oven. 
 Mince Pies 
 
  5 pounds finely chopped meat  4 " good
apples  3 " sugar-- 3 do Raisins  1 " currant jelly-- 4
oz butter  mace &#38; cinnamon, one ounce   
 When this is prepared make a crust of 2/3 the usual quantity of lard and 1/3
of fat salt pork chopped fine. All to be rubbed in the flour and wet with cold
water Bake in a slow oven one hour.  
 Boston Brown Bread   
 or-- put in a pan made on purpose and covered tight. Set in a Kettle of hot
water, the Kettle to be covered and Kept boiling from early in the morning till
2 O clock p.m. Then taken out and put on a pie pan and set in the oven to
harden the crust.  
 Chicken Corn Pie 
 Prepare 2 chickens as for frying-- Then put them down and let them stew in a
great deal of rich highly seasoned gravy--until they are just done. Then have
ready picked 24 ears of green corn-- Take very sharp knife &#38; shave them
down once or twice then scrape the heart out with the rest already scraped
down. Take a baking pan (a deep one) place a layer of the chicken, with some of
the gravy, then a layer of corn and so on. Until you get the chicken all in--
The cover with the corn and pour in all the gravy, add a small lump of butter
on the top and set it to baking in not a very hot oven. It does not take long
to cook. As soon as the corn is done its ready for the table. Either in the
same dish or turned into another, much gravy is best. 
 Rolls 
 Warm 1 oz butter in 1/2 pt milk-- 1 spoonful Bakers yeast-- little each--
put 2 pds flour in a pan &#38; mix in the above, let it rise 1 hour-- Knead it
well, make into seven rolls and bake in a quick oven.  
 Rusk---(Molly) 
 1 cup butter-- 1 sugar-- 1 yeast 2 eggs-- 1 pt sweet milk-- flour enough to
stir it stiff-- beat the sugar and eggs to-gether until very light-- then add
the butter and part of flour and stir again until light. Boil the milk and let
it get nearly cold -- Then add the rest of flour &#38; milk-- Adding the yeast
last of all-- Make up in evening &#38; let it raise til morning-- Then work it
and let it raise again. When light rub a little butter on your hands, and work
as little as possible into rusk-- Put in a pan &#38; when light bake them. 
 Egg Omelette (Mallory) 
 4-eggs-- 4 table spoons Corn starch-- 2 cups sweet milk-- salt &#38;
pepper-- Cook on top of stove &#38; then set in the oven to brown the top-- 
 Ginger Bread 
 1 po flour-- 1/2 do sugar-- yolks of 3 eggs-- 1/2 po butter-- Ginger to
taste  
 Ginger Bread 
 1 cup brown sugar-- 1 do butter-- 1 do sour milk-- 4 eggs-- 2 tea spoons
soda-- 1 table spoon ginger-- flour to make soft as cake-- Bake in a moderate
oven. 
 Rusk 
 1 cup sugar. do milk-- do yeast-- do flour-- mix over night &#38; in the
morning add half cup sugar &#38; 1/2 cup butter-- rub together two eggs--
reserving the white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth with a little sugar to
spread over the top of the rusk when baked-- 
 Jumbles 
 1 pound butter-- do sugar. 2 do flour-- 3 eggs-- 1/2 cup sour milk tea-spoon
soda-- Roll in white coffee sugar. This will make a large batch 
 End of handwritten recipes. 
 
  
 Custards, Creams, &#38;c. 
 
  FLOAT. 
 Mrs. J. T. Wolf. One quart of
 milk;  let it come to a boil; the  yolks of
three eggs;  one and a half tablespoonful of  corn
starch;  beat together with a little  cold
milk.  When the  milk  boils, stir in the
 starch  and  eggs.  When done,
sweeten and flavor to taste. Beat the  whites of the
eggs;  pour  boiling water  over them in a
bowl; then lift off, on the custard. 
 
 
  APPLE FLOAT. 
 Mrs. G. W. Rogers. One quart of
 apples  slightly stewed and well mashed;
 whites of three eggs  well beaten; four heaping
tablespoonful of  sugar.  Beat together for twenty
minutes. To be eaten with  cream  soon after made. 
 
 
  APPLE CODDLE. 
 Miss Louie Phillips. Pare and quarter
 tart apples  and boil them gently with one
 lemon  for every six  apples, 
till a straw will pass through them. Make a syrup of half a pound of
 white sugar  to each pound of
 apples;  put the  apples  and
 lemons  sliced into the syrup, and boil gently until
the  apples  look clear; then take them up carefully so
as not to break them, and add an ounce or more of
 gelatine  to the syrup and let it boil up; then lay a
slice of  lemon  on each  apple 
and strain the syrup and pour over them. 
 
 The following name is written in script at the bottom left-hand corner
of page 81. 
 Ms Phillips 
 
  APPLE OMELET. 
 Mrs. C. Wight. Eight large
 apples;  four  eggs;  one cup of
 sugar;  one tablespoonful of
 butter;   nutmeg, or cinnamon, 
to taste. Stew the  apples,  and mash fine; add the
 butter  and  sugar.  When cold,
add the  eggs  well beaten. Bake until brown, and eat
while warm. 
 
 
  OMELET SOUFFLEE. Take two ounces of
 sugar;  two ounces of  butter, 
three ounces of  flour,  and one pint of
 milk.  Mix all together well; set on a slow fire; keep
stirring until it gets the thickness of soft  butter; 
then take it from the fire, and add the beaten  yolks of five
eggs;  then beat the  whites of five eggs 
to a stiff froth; mix well the above. Add any
 flavoring  you prefer. Pour into buttered
 pudding cups,  and bake in a moderate oven. 
 
 
  BLANC MANGE. Mix one tablespoonful of
 Sea Moss Farina  with a little  cold
milk;  then add one quart of  milk,  and
half a teacupful of  powdered white sugar.  Heat slowly;
let it boil fifteen minutes, stirring all the time. When taken off, flavor to
taste. Pour into  moulds,  and serve with
 cream.  
 
 
  RICE BLANC MANGE. One quart of
 new milk;  six tablespoonful of  coarsely
ground rice.  Wash the  rice  very well, and
drain the  water  off. Just as the
 milk  begins to boil, add the
 rice,  one tablespoonful at a time, stirring
constantly; boil for twenty minutes, or untill it becomes quite thick; sweeten
to taste; add two tablespoonsful of  water,  and one
teaspoonful of  rose water.  
  
 
  GELATINE BLANC MANGE. 
 Mrs. C. G. G. Two and a half
 sheets of gelatine  dissolved in  cold
water,  to one quart of  milk.  Sweeten and
flavor to taste. 
 
 
  CORN STARCH BLANC MANGE. Four
tablespoonsful of  corn starch  dissolved in a little
 milk  Put one quart of  milk  on
the stove, and, when boiling, stir the  starch  into it;
add a lump of  butter  the size of a hickory-nut; flavor
to taste. 
 
 
  PEACH BLANC MANGE. 
 Mrs. L. G. Evans. Boil in one quart of
 sweet milk  about ten fresh  peach
leaves,  with four ounces of  sugar  and one
teacupful of  corn starch  dissolved in a quarter of a
pint of  cold milk;  stir all the time; boil a few
minutes and turn out into a  mould.  
 
 
  CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 
 Mrs. M. Eells. One ounce of
 Cox's gelatine  dissolved in as much
 water  as will cover it; four ounces of
 grated chocolate;  one quart of
 milk;  three quarters of a pound of
 sugar.  Boil the  eggs, 
 milk,  and  chocolate  together
five minutes; then put in the  gelatine,  and let the
whole boil five minutes longer, stirring constantly. Add one teaspoonful of
 vanilla extract;  and put in
 moulds  to cool. 
 
 
  NEAPOLITAN BLANC MANGE. Heat one quart of
 milk  to boiling; stir in one ounce of
 gelatine  that has been soaked in one cup of the
 milk  for an hour, and three fourths of a cup of
 sugar.  When the  gelatine  is
dissolved, strain it through a  thin muslin bag.  Divide
into four portions, allowing one cupful for each. Wet one large tablespoonful
of  chocolate,  with a little  boiling
water;  rub it up very smooth. Put this in one portion, and set
on the fire, stirring until very hot, but do not
let it boil. Mix with the second portion, the  yolk of one
egg  beaten very light, and heat as above. Color the third with
 cochineal, or cranberry juice.  Wet a
 mould,  and put the white in; and, when cold, put in the
pink, then the yellow, then the chocolate. Set in a cold place. Loosen, by
dipping the mould in  warm water  for a second. 
 
 
  CUSTARD. The general rule to observe in
making custard is to take five  eggs  to one quart of
 milk,  and a tablespoonful of
 sugar  to every  egg.  Beat the
 eggs  separately. Always boil milk, custard, rice, and
cracked wheat in a vessel set within another of  boiling
water.  Stir in the  yolks of the eggs 
before the  milk  boils, to prevent its curdling. 
 
 
  CREAM CUSTARDS. 
 Mrs. Dr. Stewart. One quart of
 cream;  four tablespoonsful of  white
sugar;   whites of four eggs.  Stir the
 sugar  into the  cream;  then
add the  whites of the eggs  without beating them; stir
all well, and flavor with  bitter almonds or vanilla. 
Bake in cups, set in a pan half filled with  water;  put
in the oven, and bake till it thickens. 
 
 
  ALMOND CUSTARD. One pint of  new
milk;  one cup of  pulverized sugar;  one
quarter pound of  almonds,  blanched and pounded; two
teaspoonsful of  rose water;  the  yolks of
four eggs.  Stir this over a slow fire until it is of the
consistency of cream; then remove it quickly, and put in a dish. Beat the
 whites  with a little  sugar 
added to a stiff froth, and lay on the top. 
 
 
  INDIAN CUSTARD. 
 Mrs. E. P. Filleo. Heat two quarts of
 milk;  then stir in one cup of
 molasses;  a small cup
of  fine corn meal;  two beaten
 eggs,  and a little  salt.  Cook
slowly one hour. If it seems too thick, thin it with a little  cold
water.  
 
 
  LEMON CREAM. Take one
 lemon,  and grate it up fine; one cup of
 sugar;  three-fourths of a cup of
 water;  one cup of  butter,  and
three  eggs.  Take the  lemon, 
 sugar,   butter,  and
 water,  and put them in a pan, and let it come to a
boil. Have the  eggs  well beaten, and stir in while
boiling; let it thicken, then take off to cool. Is nice for traveling
lunch. 
 
 
  WINE CREAM. One half ounce of
 gelatine  dissolved in one and one half cups of
 white wine,  to which is added the  rind and
juice of one lemon,  and three quarters of a pound of
 white sugar.  Let it simmer till mixed; then strain.
When cool, but not congealed, add one and one-half pints of
 cream,  stirring gently, that it may not separate.
 A little  orange juice and peel  is an
improvement.  
 
 
  HAMBURG CREAM. 
 Mrs. Armstrong. Take the
 rind and juice of two large lemons;  eight
 eggs;  with one cup of  sugar. 
Stir together the  yolks of the eggs, 
 lemons,  and  sugar.  Put in a
 tin bucket  set within another of  boiling
water;  place over the fire; stir well for three minutes; take from
the fire, and add the  whites of the eggs,  which must
be beaten to a froth. Put in custard cups, or small glasses. To be eaten before
quite cold with  cake.  
 
 
  ITALIAN CREAM. 
 Nellie Andrews. One quart of
 milk;  three  eggs;  six
tablespoonsful of  sugar;  three tablespoonsful of
 corn starch.  Boil like custard. Make a merangue with
the  whites,  and a little
 sugar.  Flavor with
 vanilla.  
  
 
  RUSSIAN CREAM. 
 Nellie Andrews. Five
 eggs;  one quarter of a pound of
 sugar;  one  lemon, grated.  The
 yolks,   sugar,  and
 lemon  to be beaten together very light; then boil;
stir in the  whites  while cooking. 
 
 
  SPANISH CREAM. 
 Miss Drusie Harris. One box of
 gelatine  soaked in a large cup of  milk or
water;  one quart of  milk  boiled and
poured into it; then beat the  yolks of eight eggs,  and
add to the  gelatine,  with one and a half cups of
 sugar.  Let it thicken as for custard. Beat the
 whites of the eggs  in a dish, and pour in the custard;
mix well; flavor with  lemon or vanilla;  and let cool
in the mould. 
 
 
  TAPIOCA CREAM. 
 Mrs. A. Butterfield. Soak two
tablespoonsful of  tapioca  in a teacupful of
 milk or water  over night. In the morning place a quart
of  milk  over the fire; let it come to a boil. Beat the
 yolks of three eggs  and mix with the
 tapioca;  sweeten and flavor to taste. Pour in the
 milk,  and cook the same as  boiled
custard;  when done, pour in cups. Beat the
 whites  to a froth with two tablespoonsful of
 sugar,  and put over the top. 
 
 
  WINE JELLY 
 Mrs. Jno. G. Lowe. One box of
 Cox's gelatine;  pour on it a pint of  cold
water,  and let it stand ten minutes; then pour on four pints of
 boiling water;  one pint of
 wine;  two pounds of  sugar; 
the  juice of three lemons, and the grated rind of one. 
Strain immediately through a  jelly bag,  and let stand to
cool. 
 
 
  WINE JELLY. Two ounces of  Cox's
gelatine  dissolved in one pint of  cold
water;  soak one hour; half pint of  wine; 
wine glass of  brandy; 
 juice of two lemons; grated rind  of one; one and three
fourth pounds of  sugar.  Over this pour three pints of
 boiling water;  strain into
 moulds.  
 
 
  CHOCOLATE JELLY. 
 Mrs. Admiral Schenck. One cup of
 sugar;  one cup of  molasses; 
three fourths of a cup of  milk;  one half cake of
 chocolate  dissolved in  water; 
a piece of  butter  size of a
 hickory-nut;  one tablespoonful of
 flour  mixed with a little
 milk  to thicken; one half teaspoonful of
 soda.  Boil one quarter of an hour. 
 
 
  FROST JELLY. 
 Miss Fannie Clarke. One half box of
 gelatine;  one half pint of  cold
water  poured over to dissolve it; one half pint of
 boiling water;  two cupsful of
 sugar;   juice of two lemons. 
When cool, and just beginning to form, add the beaten  whites of two
eggs,  and beat the whole together until it is thoroughly mixed.
Set in a cool place. 
 
 
  ORANGE OR LEMON GELATINE. 
 Hattie B. Brown. One half box of
 gelatine  dissolved in one half pint of
 cold water;  one half cupful of
 sugar;   juice of six and grated rind of one
orange;  and one half pint of  boiling
water.   For  lemon gelatine,  after
dissolving, add one and a half pints of  boiling water; 
one cup of  sugar;  the  juice of three and
rind of one lemon;  then strain and set to cool.  
 
 
  CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 
 Mrs. J. J. Patterson. Beat the
 yolks of seven eggs  and stir them into one pint of
 scalding milk  with a little
 sugar;  boil like custard and set away to cool. Pour a
large cup of  warm water  over a half box of
 gelatine;  set it on the  stove, 
but don't let it get hot. Beat the
 whites of the eggs  very light, and add enough
 pulverized sugar  to make it stiff; then whip one quart
of  cream,  and stir into the custard; then the
 whites  flavored with  vanilla; 
then the  gelatine  well dissolved; mix thoroughly and
set away to cool (about two hours). Line your dish with either
 sponge cake or lady fingers,  and fill with the
mixture; let stand five or six hours. 
 
 
  CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 
 Mrs. J. R. Young. One quart of
 cream  whipped to a stiff froth; one third of a box of
 Cox's gelatine  dissolved in one half pint of
 boiling water;  sweeten and flavor to taste; stir in a
little  cream;  not whipped, to cool it; then stir in
the  whipped cream.  Line a dish with  sponge
cake,  and pour on the  cream,  and set it
away to congeal. Let the  gelatine  stand in
 warm water  until it is almost dissolved; then set the
cup in a pan of  boiling water,  and, when it is
scalding hot, pour it over the  egg  and
 sugar.  
 
 
  CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 
 Mrs. F. W. Grimes. One quart of
 cold cream;  two ounces of
 gelatine;  two  eggs  (if the
cream is thick, omit the eggs); one-half of a pound of
 sugar.  Dissolve the  gelatine 
in a little  milk,  very slowly; beat the
 eggs  and  sugar  together; whip
the  cream  to a stiff froth; line the
 mould  with  sponge cake;  mix the
ingredients together, and put into the  mould;  set it on
 ice.  
 
 
  CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 
 Mrs. D. W. Stewart. Soak in
 cold water  one ounce of
 isinglass;  take three ounces of best
 chocolate;  mix in a pint of
 cream,  adding the soaked
 isinglass.  Put all over the fire, and boil slowly
until the whole is melted; then take off the fire, and let it cool. Take eight
 yolks,  and four  whites of
eggs;  beat very light, and stir gradually in the mixture in turn
with one half of a pound of
 sugar.  Simmer the whole over the fire, but do not let
it boil; then take it off, and whip to a strong froth; line the
 moulds  with  sponge cake,  and
set it on the  ice.  
 
 
  SOUFLEE DE RUSSE 
 Mrs. A. Brown. Three pints of
 milk;  four  eggs;  one half box
of  gelatine;  sweeten and flavor to taste. Boil as
custard. As it is taken from the fire, stir in the
 whites  beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into
 moulds,  and when cold eat with
 cream.  
 
 
  LEMON SPONGE. 
 Mrs. J. L. Brenner. To one half box
 Cox's gelatine,  take one and a half pints of
 cold water;  dissolve over the fire; then add one pound
of  white sugar;   rinds of two and juice of
three lemons.  Boil all together for a few minutes. When nearly
cold add the  whites of three eggs  beaten to a froth.
Beat all well together; then set in a cool place. When it begins to thicken,
stir thoroughly; let stand again and beat as before. The oftener this is
repeated the whiter it will become. Pour into moulds; serve with
 cream.  One half this recipe is enough for five or six
persons. 
 
 
  ICE CREAM. One quart of
 cream;  two  eggs;  two cups of
 sugar;   eggs  beaten
separately,  sugar  in the
 yolks,  then beaten very hard together; stir the
 eggs  into the cream; flavor to taste. 
 
 
  ICE CREAM. 
 Mrs. John W. Stoddard. Two quarts of
 pure cream;  one pound of  powdered
sugar;   whites of four eggs.  Flavor to
taste. 
 
 
  CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. Use five ounces of
 chocolate,  dissolved in warm
 milk,  to one gallon of
 cream.  
  
 
  CHOCOLATE CREAM. 
 H. Maillard. One quart of
 cream;  eleven ounces  powdered
sugar;   yolks of six eggs; 
 white of one egg;  zest of
 lemon,  a piece as large as a nickel cent; one bar of
 chocolate (Maillard's single, double, or triple
vanilla).  Scrape the  chocolate  very fine,
and put it with the  eggs  and
 sugar;  stir or beat until the mixture is complete, and
add the  cream  by degrees. Pour into a  milk
boiler,  and stir until the  cream  is thick
enough to stick to the  spatula;  then pour the contents
into an  earthen dish, or freezer,  and set in a very cold
place. The boiling of the  cream  is of great
importance, and requires particular attention, especially when no milk boiler
is at hand, and the  cream  is boiled on open fire. In
this case, as soon as the  cream  begins to stick to the
 spatula,  the pan must be immediately withdrawn. The
flavoring should be added after the  cream  is boiled.
Before freezing it is advisable to pass it through a  hair
sieve.  
 
 
  FROZEN PUDDING. 
 Mrs. Henry Stoddard. One and one half
pints of  cream;  four ounces of
 macaroons;  six ounces of  white
sugar;  the  yellow rind of one orange, grated, and the
juice of two.   If oranges can not be had, use one ounce
of  orgeat.   Beat the
 cream  on  ice  until it hangs
to the beater; then add the  sugar, 
 oranges,  and the  macaroons 
(grated and put through a sieve). Freeze like ice cream, and afterward put into
 moulds.  
 
 
  LEMON ICE. Make a rich
 lemonade;  add a little  arrow
root.  Be careful to stir steadily while freezing. 
 
 
  ORANGE ICE.  Juice of six
oranges, and grated rind of three;   juice of two lemons;  one pint of
 sugar  dissolved in one pint of  cold
water.  Mix, and freeze same as lemon ice. 
 
 
  ORANGE ICE. One and one half pints of
 water;  one pint of  sugar; 
 juice of eight oranges, and two lemons; 
 whites of four eggs,  beaten very light; rub some of
the  sugar  on the  orange,  to
extract the flavor. Boil the  sugar  and
 water  together for ten or fifteen minutes, and pour it
over the  eggs,  boiling hot, stirring all the time;
then add the  juice,  which must be strained. When cool,
freeze. 
 
 
  FROZEN PEACHES. Take two quarts of
 rich milk,  and two teacupsful of
 sugar  mix well together, and put into a freezer, with
 ice  and  salt  packed around
it. Have ready one quart of  peaches,  mashed and
sweetened. When the  milk  is very cold, stir them in,
and freeze all together.   Strawberries  can be used
in the same way, but will require more
 sugar.   
 
 
  FROZEN STRAWBERRIES. Take nice, ripe
 strawberries;  put them into a bowl and mash them; make
them rather sweeter than for the table. Let them stand until the juice is drawn
out, then freeze. Serve with  cream, or ice cream.  
 
 
  
 CONFECTIONERY. 
 
  TAFFY. Melt in a stew pan three ounces of
 butter  and one pound of  moist
sugar;  stir well over a slow fire; boil one quarter of an hour;
pour out on a buttered dish and mark in squares. 
 
 
  MOLASSES CANDY. 
 Lillie. One half pound of
 sugar;  one quarter pound of
 butter;  one quart of
 molasses;  boil until it will crack in  cold
water.  When cool it can be pulled until white. 
 
 
  CREAM CANDY. 
 Miss M. A. Cummin. One pound of
 loaf sugar;  one cupful of
 water;  one half teaspoonful of  cream
tartar;  two of  vanilla;  two of
 vinegar;   butter  size of an
egg. Boil until it hardens when dropped into  water. 
When nearly cold, pull as you would other candy. 
 
 
  CHOCOLATE CAROMELS. 
 Mrs. Ashley Brown. Take of
 grated chocolate,   milk, 
 molasses  and  sugar,  one
cupful each; piece of  butter  size of an egg; boil
until it drops hard; put in a buttered pan and, before it cools, mark off in
square blocks. 
  
 
  CANDY DROPS. 
 Mrs. Ashley Brown. One pint of
 sugar;  half pint of  water; 
boil till it cracks when dropped in  water;  flavor with
 lemon or peppermint;  drop in small drops on buttered
paper. 
 
 
  COCOANUT CANDY. Two pounds of
 coffee sugar  to one  cocoanut; 
dissolve  sugar  in the  milk of the
nut;  then let it come to a boil and add the  grated
meat.  Boil until tender; then pour out and let cool on buttered
pans; cut in squares. 
 
 
  BUTTER SCOTCH. 
 Mattie. One cupful of
 Orleans molasses;  one cupful of
 sugar;  one half cupful of
 butter;  boil until it snaps in
 water.  
 
 
  
 BREAD. 
 
  YEAST. Pour three pints and a half of
 cold water  on one handful of
 hops;  grate three large
 potatoes;  boil the  hops 
fifteen minutes; then mix together one half cup of
 sugar;  a large kitchenspoonful of
 flour;  one tablespoonful of
 ginger  and one of  salt;  a
lump of  alum  the size of a hazelnut. After straining
the  water  off the  hops,  pour
it over the mixture and let it boil five minutes; stir all the time. When cool,
add one pint of sponge and let stand twenty-four hours, stirring it frequently;
then jug and cork tight. Put in a cool place. It will keep three weeks. 
 
 
  DRY YEAST. Take three pints of
 flour  and put it in a  crock; 
boil and skin six common sized  potatoes;  press them
through a  cullender  into the
 flour;  add three pints of
 water  in which a handful of
 hops  has boiled five minutes. Mix well together and
let stand fifteen minutes, or until about  milk  warm;
then pour in enough  cold water  to make it of the
consistency of sponge. Soak half a pint of  dry yeast 
and add to it. Let it rise very light, stirring it down three or four times;
then put three quarts of  sifted corn meal  into a bread
bowl and pour the  raised yeast  into the middle of it.
Mix until quite stiff; spread out thin and dry it in the shade, turning
occasionally. It will dry in a couple of days. 
  
 
  BREAD. In the evening, pare and cut six or
eight  potatoes;  boil and mash them; add one quart of
 boiling water;  while hot, stir in
 flour  to make a batter; when cool enough, add one
teacup of  dry yeast  that has been soaked in a little
 tepid water.  The next morning, stir up the sponge to a
thick batter with one quart of  water,  and two
tablespoonsful of  salt,  and add the
 yeast.  When light, mix in
 flour  and knead well; then let it rise again; mould,
and put into pans. When light, bake one hour. This will make four small
loaves. 
 
 
  BREAD. 
 Mrs. W. R. S. Ayres. Four pints of
good  sour milk;  let it come to a boil; pour it over
two large tablespoonsful of  flour;  let stand till
cool. Then make a thin batter by adding  flour  and one
half teacupful of  jug yeast;  let stand till morning,
then mix in  flour  enough to make it stiff; knead well;
let it rise in the bowl until very light. Mould into four loaves; let it rise
again before baking. Bake in a quick oven three quarters of an hour. 
 
 
  BREAD, WITH DRY YEAST. In the evening, take
four medium sized  potatoes;  pare and boil them; when
soft, drain off the  water,  and mash, with a teacupful
of  flour;  then rub the lumps out with your hands; if
too hot, add a little  cold water.  Add a cake of
 dry yeast  soaked in a little  tepid
water;  mix well, and let stand till morning. Then stir into the
sponge a quart of  milk;  two tablespoonsful of
 salt,  and  flour  enough to
make a dough. Knead well, and let it rise; then make into loaves, and, when
light, bake one hour. 
 
 
  BROWN LOAF. 
 Mrs. A. D. Wilt. One coffee cup of
 molasses;  nearly one teaspoonful of
 soda,  dissolved in one half teacupful of
 boiling water,  stirred into the  molasses  till it foams; then mix
three parts of  Graham flour  and one part
 corn meal,  to make a thick batter, and add one
desert-spoonful of  lard.  Pour the mixture into a well
greased  mould,  and steam four hours. To be eaten hot.
Very nice as a pudding, with  rich sauce.  
 
 
  BROWN BREAD. 
 Mrs. D. W. Stewart. Take a quart of
 bread sponge  that has been raised over night; a small
teacupful of  Orleans molasses;  one teaspoonful of
 soda,  dissolved in a little
 water;  a piece of  alum  the
size of a pea, dissolved in  water.  Have the
 molasses,   alum,  and
 soda  well mixed into the sponge, then add
 unbolted flour  enough to make a soft dough--not quite
as stiff as white bread. Make into small loaves; let stand until light, and
bake. Never use sugar-house molasses or syrup. 
 
 
  BROWN BREAD. 
 Lena Vignos. For six loaves of
 bread  take three pints of  warm
water;  one cent's worth of  brewer's
yeast;  set it in the evening. In the morning add one teacupful of
 Orleans molasses  and a little
 salt;  mix stiff; let rise again; knead and bake as
other bread. 
 
 
  RYE BROWN BREAD. 
 Mrs. C. E. Corp. One pint of
 corn meal  scalded; when cool, add one pint of
 sponge;  one teaspoonful of
 soda;  two thirds cupful of  Orleans
molasses;   wheat or rye flour  to make a
stiff batter. Place in a pan; let stand until very light. Bake one and
one-quarter hours. 
 
 
  RICE BREAD. Take a plate of
 boiled rice  warm enough to melt a lump of
 butter  the size of a walnut; beat two
 eggs,  separately. Mix with them one and one half
teacupsful of  flour,  and  milk 
enough to make a thick batter, adding a little  salt. 
Grease the pans and bake like bread or muffins. 
  
 
  CORN BREAD. One pint of  sour
milk;  one teaspoonful of  saleratus;  one
pint of  corn meal;  three
 eggs;  two tablespoonsful of
 sugar,  and one of  melted
butter.  Bake in shallow pans. 
 
 
  CORN BREAD. 
 Piqua, Ohio. Three
 eggs  beaten separately; put the
 yolks  in last; one fourth cupful of
 lard  and  butter  mixed
together; one teacupful of  buttermilk;  one teaspoonful
of  soda,  and a little  salt; 
 corn meal  enough to make it stiff as pound cake. 
 
 
  CORN BREAD. 
 Mrs. Dr. Steele. One quart of
 corn meal;  one pint of  flour; 
one pint of thick,  sour milk;  one
 egg;  two tablespoonsful of
 molasses;  one teaspoonful of
 soda.  Mix together, putting the  white of
the egg  in last. Steam one hour in a two-quart  tin
pan;  then bake ten minutes to brown. 
 
 
  MISSISSIPPI CORN BREAD. 
 Mrs. Admiral Schenck. Same quantity of
 soft boiled rice  and  sifted corn
meal;  add a little  lard or butter;  mix
with  sour milk  sweetened with
 soda.  Bake in a  deep tin pan  in
a quick oven. Bring it to the table in the pan hot. 
 
 
  CORN DODGERS. 
 Mrs. A. Grimes. Two pints of
 corn meal;  one tablespoonful of
 lard;  two  eggs,  and one
teaspoonful of  salt.  Scald the
 meal  with the  lard  in it;
cool with a very little  milk;  add the
 eggs  and beat hard for ten minutes. If too thick add a
little more  milk.  They must be just thick enough to
retain their shape when dropped from a spoon. Grease the pan, and have it hot
before putting them in. 
  
 
  RUSKS. 
 Mrs. J. F. Edgar. One quart of
 milk;  six  eggs;  three fourths
pound of  butter;  two cups of
 sugar;  one pint of  potato
yeast;  mix with  flour  to a batter. When
light, make into a soft dough; let rise again; then roll out, cut, and put into
pans to rise. When light, bake. 
 
 
  RUSK. 
 Mrs. A. M. Woodhull. Piece of
 breaddough  large enough to fill a quart bowl; one
teacupful of  melted butter;  one
 egg;  one teaspoonful of
 saleratus.  Knead quite hard; roll out thin; lap
together; cut with a  mould;  and set them to rise in a
warm place. 
 
 
  ENGLISH ROLLS. 
 Mrs. D. A. Bradford. Take two pounds
of  flour;  two ounces of
 butter;  three tablespoonsful of
 yeast  and a pint of  warm
milk.  Stir well together, and set before the fire to rise; knead
and make into twelve rolls. Bake in a moderate oven twenty minutes. 
 
 
  SARATOGA ROLLS. One pint of
 sweet milk;  two pints of
 flour;  two tablespoonsful of
 butter;  four tablespoonsful of
 yeast.  Beat thoroughly and let rise five or six hours,
or all night. Before baking, add one half teaspoonful
 saleratus  dissolved in a little  warm
water.  Pour into a shallow pan and bake half an hour. 
 
 
  PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 
 Mrs. Wm. Clark. At night take two
quarts of  flour;  rub in two tablespoonsful of
 lard;  make a hole in the middle and put in one pint of
 cold boiled milk;  one half cup of
 yeast;  three tablespoonsful of
 sugar,  and a little  salt.  Let
this stand until morning without mixing; then beat hard and let it stand until
noon. Then roll and cut round; spread a little
 butter  on each one and fold over; put them into pans
and let stand until ready to bake. 
 
 
  GRAHAM BREAKFAST ROLLS. Two pounds of
 potatoes  boiled and pressed through a
 cullender;  one pint of  water; 
one half cupful of  sugar;  one teaspoonful of
 salt,  and one half cupful of
 yeast.  Mix into a stiff dough with  Graham
flour;  let it rise over night. In the morning mould into small
cakes, and, when light, bake. 
 
 
  POUNDED BISCUIT. One quart of
 flour;  a pinch of  salt;  one
half teacupful of  butter;  make a stiff dough with
 milk;  knead it a little; then beat hard with a
 rolling pin  fifteen or twenty minutes. Roll out and cut
into small biscuits. Stick with a fork and bake in a hot oven. 
 
 
  HUNTER'S BISCUIT. 
 Mrs. J. H. Pierce. Into five pints of
 sifted flour  mix three teaspoonsful of
 cream tartar;  stir in one half pint of
 sweet milk  and one half pint of  melted
butter or fresh lard.  Into this stir one half pint of
 sweet milk  with a saltspoonful of
 salt  and one teaspoonful of
 soda  thoroughly dissolved in it. The dough should be
very stiff, rolled in thin sheets, and cut upon the baking pan with a
 knife or notched wheel.  
 
 
  SODA BISCUIT. 
 Mrs. David Rench. One pint of
 sweet milk;  one teaspoonful of  cream
tartar;  one half teaspoonful of  soda  with
the  milk;  one teaspoonful of
 lard  mixed with the  flour;  a
little  salt;  cut one quarter of an inch thick. Bake
ten minutes. 
 
 
  DROP BISCUITS. One quart of
 flour;  three teaspoonsful of  baking
powder;   one small teaspoonful of
 salt;  piece of  butter  the
size of an egg rubbed thoroughly in the  flour;  one
pint of  milk;  drop from a spoon in buttered pans. Bake
in a quick oven. 
 
 
  RYE DROP CAKES. To one pint of
 sour milk, or buttermilk,  add three
 eggs;  a small teaspoonful of
 soda;  a little  salt,  and
 rye meal  sufficient to make a stiff batter; add the
 soda  to the  milk  before the
meal; then the  yolks,  and, lastly, the
 whites,  well beaten. Bake in  muffin
rings,  or drop on a  griddle.  
 
 
  WHIGS. One quart of
 flour;  one pint of  milk; 
three  eggs;  one large spoonful of  melted
butter;  three teaspoonsful of  baking
powder.  Bake in  muffin rings  or cups 
 
 
  MUFFINS. 
 Mrs. G. W. H. One pint of
 warm milk;  three or four
 eggs;  a piece of  lard  the
size of an egg; one teaspoonful of  salt,  and one half
cup of  yeast;  mix with  flour 
stiff enough to drop from a spoon; let rise three hours in a warm place. 
 
 
  CORN MUFFINS. 
 Mrs. S. Gebhart. One large cupful of
 sweet milk;  one of  buttermilk or sour
cream,  in which dissolve one half teaspoonful of
 soda;  one large tablespoonful of
 lard,  one cup of  boiled rice; 
one cup of  corn meal;  one tablespoonful of
 sugar,  and two  eggs.  Beat the
 milk,   rice, 
 lard,   sour cream,  and
 yolks of the eggs  well together; then add the
 whites,  beaten very light; lastly, the
 flour.  Bake in  muffin pans.  
 
 
  RICE MUFFINS. 
 Mrs. S. G. One pint of
 boiled rice;  one of  sweet
milk;  five  eggs;  one half cup of
 butter  and  lard  mixed; one
pint of  sponge,  and a
pinch of  salt.  Beat the  yolks of the
eggs,   rice,  and
 butter  together; then add the sponge and
 milk;  stir in sufficient
 flour  to make a batter. Let it rise very light; beat
the  whites of the eggs,  and stir in just before
baking. 
 
 
  GRAHAM GEMS. 
 Mrs. J. F. E. Two
 eggs;  two cups of  sweet milk; 
one cup of  Graham flour;  one of  wheat
flour,  and a little  salt.  Grease the pans
with  lard;  heat them very hot; fill almost full, and
bake about half an hour. 
 
 
  POTATO CAKES. Two pounds of
 mashed potatoes;  two tablespoonsful of
 butter,  and a little  salt; 
two pounds of  flour;  stir in
 milk  enough to make a batter; put in one half
teacupful of  yeast.  Set before the fire to rise; when
light, bake in cakes the size of a muffin. 
 
 
  SALLY LUNN. 
 Mrs. G. W. Loomis, Suffield. One pint
of  milk;  three  eggs,  beaten
separately; one tablespoonful of  sugar;  one
teaspoonful of  salt,  and three pints of
 flour;  one half teacupful of
 yeast,  and a piece of  butter 
the size of an egg, warmed in the  milk.  Mix it up in
the morning, if wanted for tea. When light, stir down, and pour into pans, and
let Sally rise again. Bake from three quarters to one hour. 
 
 
  SALLY LUNN, WITHOUT YEAST. One quart of
 flour;  one half pint of  milk; 
two  eggs;  a piece of  butter 
the size of an egg; three tablespoonsful of  sugar;  one
teaspoonful of  soda,  and two of  cream
tartar.  Bake twenty minutes. 
 
 
  SALLY LUNN. 
 Mrs. Dr. Stewart. One half teacupful
of  butter,  warmed in a pint of
 milk,   with a little
 salt;  three well beaten  eggs; 
seven cups of  sifted flour,  and one half teacup of
 yeast.  Pour into pans, and bake when light. 
 
 
  BREAKFAST PUFFS. 
 Mrs. F. W. Grimes. One cup of
 milk;  one cup of  flour;  two
 eggs,  beaten separately; a pinch of
 salt,  and a little  cream. 
Half fill the cups, and bake three quarters of an hour. 
 
 
  PUFFETS. 
 Miss Sidney Simms. One quart of
 flour;  one half teaspoonful of
 salt;  a piece of  butter  the
size of an egg; two  eggs;  two tablespoonsful of
 white sugar;  one pint of  sweet
milk,  and three teaspoonsful of  baking
powder.  (In all such recipes, sift the baking powder into the
flour). Rub the  butter  in the
 flour;  beat the  eggs 
separately, adding the  white  last. Bake in
 gem pans,  in a hot oven. 
 
 
  ROSETTES. 
 Mrs. E. F. Stoddard. To three
 eggs,  the  yolks  beaten very
light, add one quart of  milk;  a piece of
 butter  the size of an egg, cut in little pieces into
the  milk  and  eggs;  three
coffee cups of  flour,  or enough to make a batter of
the consistency of waffles; a little  salt;  two
teaspoonsful of  cream tartar;  one of
 soda,  and, last of all, the  whites of the
eggs,  beaten very light, and stirred quickly into the mixture. To
be baked in a quick oven. 
 
 
  POP OVERS. One cupful of
 milk;  one cupful of  flour; 
one  egg,  and one teaspoonful of
 salt. 
 *  Bake in gem pans; let them get hot before putting in
the batter; bake quickly. Serve immediately. 
 
 The following footnote and above asterisk is handwritten. 
 * one Table Spoon full of  melted
butter   
 
  YEAST WAFFLES. 
 Mrs. Jno. G. Lowe. Take three pints of
 milk,  and one tablespoonful of
 butter;  put them into a pan on the stove until the
 butter  melts; add five  eggs, 
well beaten; one teaspoonful of  salt;  one and one half
tablespoonsful of  yeast,  and about three pints of
 flour.  Make up, and let rise three or four hours
before baking. 
 
 
  RICE WAFFLES. One teacupful of
 boiled rice  (if cold, warm it on the
 stove);  a piece of  butter  the
size of an egg; three  eggs;  add the
 yolks  well beaten; stir in gradually one and one half
cupsful of  flour;  one cupful of
 milk;  a little  salt;  one
teaspoonful of  soda;  two of  cream
tartar,  and, lastly, just before baking, stir in the
 whites of the eggs,  well beaten. 
 
 
  SOUR MILK WAFFLES. One quart of
 sour milk;  one teaspoonful of
 soda,  and a little  salt;  two
tablespoonsful of  melted butter;  five
 eggs,  beaten separately, and
 flour  enough to make a stiff batter; add the
 whites of the eggs.  
 
 
  BUCKWHEAT CAKES. Put in a jar, two quarts
of  tepid water;  one pint of
 milk,  and a little  salt;  stir
in  buckwheat flour  to a smooth but not very thick
batter; add one handful of  corn meal,  and a teacup of
 potato yeast.  Cover the jar and keep in a warm place;
let rise very light; bake on a  griddle.  
 
 
  CORN BATTER CAKES. 
 Mrs. B. C. R. One pint of
 corn meal;  a small teaspoonful of
 soda  and  salt.  Pour on enough
 boiling water  to make it like mush; let stand a few
minutes to cool; then take four  eggs;  put the
 yolks  in with the meal; a handful of
 flour,  with two teaspoonsful of  cream tartar;  stir in as much
 milk or water  (either will answer) to make the batter
suitable to bake; beat the  whites  last, and put in
just before baking. 
 
 
  CORN BATTER CAKES. Mix two parts
 buttermilk  with one of  sweet
milk;  one  egg;  one handful of
 wheat flour;  a little  salt; 
one teaspoonful of  soda,  and as much  corn
meal  as is needed to make a batter. 
 
 
  HOMINY FRITTERS. To one quart of well
 boiled hominy,  seasoned with
 pepper  and  salt,  add one
 egg;  two tablespoonsful of
 milk,  and one of  flour.  Stir
all together; mould into small cakes, and fry in a
 skillet,  with a little  butter or
lard.  
 
 
  PANCAKES OF RICE. 
 Mrs. Gorton Arnold. Boil half a pound
of  rice  to a jelly, in a small quantity of
 water;  when cool, mix with it a pint of
 cream;  eight  eggs;  a pinch of
 salt;   nutmeg;  eight ounces of
 melted butter,  and  flour 
enough to stiffen. Fry in as little  lard  as
possible. 
 
 
  FRIED MUSH. 
 Mrs. W. A. B. Into two quarts of
 boiling water,  stir  corn
meal,  until it makes a smooth mush; boil half an hour; add
 salt,  and stir briskly. Have hot, in a
 skillet,  one tablespoonful, each, of
 lard  and  butter;  drop the
boiling mush into the  skillet  in little pats; fry a
light crisp brown on both sides. 
  
 
  CRUMB CAKES. Put pieces of
 stale light bread  in a dish; pour some
 milk (or buttermilk)  over them, and let stand until
soft. Rub and press through a  cullender;  beat up three
 eggs  and stir in; add a little
 salt,  and a teaspoonful of
 salaratus.  Stir in  flour 
enough to make it of the proper consistency to bake on a
 griddle.  
 
 
  PENNSYLVANIA FLANNEL CAKES. The
 yolks of five eggs  well beaten; one quart of
 milk  slightly warmed; a little
 salt,  and  flour  enough to
make a batter; add one cup of  yeast.  They will take
several hours to rise and must be kept warm. Just before baking, add two
tablespoonsful of  melted butter,  and the
 whites of the eggs  beaten to a froth. Bake on a
 griddle.  
 
 
  LEMON TURNOVERS. 
 Mrs. D. A. Bradford. Four
dessertspoonsful of  flour;  one of  powdered
sugar;  the  rind of one lemon;  two ounces
of  melted butter;  two  eggs, 
and a little  milk.  Mix the
 flour,   sugar,  and the
 grated rind of the lemon  with a little
 milk  to the consistency of batter; then add the
 butter  and  eggs  well beaten.
Fry and turn over. 
 
 
  PEACH FRITTERS. Make a batter with eight
 eggs;  eight tablespoonsful of
 flour,  and one quart of  milk. 
Have ready in a frying pan some hot  butter.  To each
tablespoonful of batter add one half of a  peach,  and
fry. 
 
 
  SPANISH FRITTERS. Cut  baker's
bread  into strips thick as a lady-finger and any shape desired.
Take one pint of  cream;  sweeten; add
 ground cloves,   cinnamon, 
 nutmeg,   pepper,  and a pinch
of  salt.  Stir in the  whites of two or
three eggs,  well beaten; dip the  bread  in
the  cream  and fry in  butter 
quickly. Serve very hot. 
 
 
  
 CAKE. 
 In cake-baking much of the success depends on the oven, which should be well
and evenly heated before baking, and not allowed to cool. 
 Do not remove the cake until it is thoroughly baked, or it will fall. Try it
by piercing with a  broom splinter;  if nothing adheres,
it is done. 
 Flour should never be used without sifting. 
 
  BUCKEYE CAKE. One cup of
 butter;  two cups of  white
sugar;  four cups of  flour;  one cup of
 sweet milk;  six  eggs;  two
teaspoonsful of  cream tartar,  and one of
 soda.  
 
 
  POUND CAKE. 
 Miss P. One pound of
 sugar;  three quarters of a pound of
 butter;  one of  flour;  nine
 eggs;  a piece of  sal volatile 
the size of a pea, dissolved in a teaspoonful of
 water.  Beat  butter  and
 sugar  to a cream; then add the
 eggs,  beaten separately; lastly, the
 flour.  
 
 
  CORN STARCH CAKE. 
 Miss M. J. Dickson. Two cups of
 powdered sugar;  one of
 butter;  three fourths of a cup of
 milk;  the  whites of six eggs; 
three fourths of a cup of  corn
starch;  two full cups of  flour;  three
teaspoonsful of  baking powder,  mixed in the
 flour.  Flavor with  lemon.  
 
 
  DELICATE CAKE. 
 Mrs. J. R. Reynolds. Two teacupsful of
 white sugar;  three quarters of a cupful of
 butter;  one cupful of  sweet
milk;  four of  flour;  the
 whites of four eggs,  beaten to a stiff froth; three
teaspoonsful of  baking powder.  Flavor with
 vanilla, lemon, or nutmeg.  
 
 
  DELICATE CAKE. 
 Mrs. R. One half pound of
 flour;  one half pound of
 sugar;  one quarter of a pound of
 butter;  one teaspoonful  cream
tartar;  one half teaspoonful of  soda,  and
 whites of eight eggs.  Flavor to taste. 
 
 
  SNOW CAKE.  Whites of ten
eggs;  one and one half glasses of  sugar; 
one of  flour;  one teaspoonful of  cream
tartar,  and one half teaspoonful of  salt. 
Put the  cream tartar  and  salt 
in the  flour;  stir in the
 sugar;  beat the  whites of the
eggs  very light, and stir all together. Flavor with
 lemon.  
 
 
  SILVER CAKE. The  whites of five
eggs;  one cup of  sugar;  two and one half
cups of  flour;  one half cup of
 butter;  one half cup of  milk; 
one teaspoonful of  cream tartar,  and one half
teaspoonful of  soda.  Mix the
 butter  and  sugar  together;
add the  milk;  then the  flour, 
in which has been mixed the  cream tartar;  then the
 whites of the eggs;  then the
 soda,  dissolved in a little  boiling
water.  
 
 
  GOLD CAKE. One cup of
 butter;  two cups of  sugar; 
three cups of  flour;  one half a cup of
 milk;  the  yolks of five eggs; 
one teaspoonful  of  cream
tartar;  one half a teaspoonful of  soda; 
flavor to taste. 
 
 
  FRENCH BUNN. 
 Mrs. G. W. Rogers. One pound of
 sugar;  one pound of  flour; 
one half pound of  butter;  two wine glasses of
 new milk;  one teaspoonful of
 soda;  two of  cream tartar, 
and eight  eggs.  Beat  butter 
and  sugar  to a cream. 
 
 
  LIVERPOOL CAKE. 
 Miss Mary A. Cummin. One pound of
 flour;  one pound of  sugar; 
one half pound of  butter;  four
 eggs;  one cupful of  sweet
milk;  two teaspoonsful of  cream tartar, 
and one teaspoonful of  soda,  in the
 milk.  Flavor to taste. Beat the
 sugar  and  butter  together;
then the  eggs,  without separating; add
 milk,   flour,  and
 soda  last. 
 
 
  SOCIAL CAKE. 
 Mrs. L. Moore. One cup of
 butter;  two of  sugar;  three
and one half cups of  flour;  five
 eggs,  beaten separately; three quarters of a cup of
 milk;  one teaspoonful of  cream
tartar,  and half a teaspoonful of  soda. 
Flavor with  lemon.  
 
 
  QUEEN CAKE. 
 Miss Lucy Chambers. One pound of
 sugar;  one pound of  flour, 
light weight; ten  eggs,  leaving out four
 whites.  Beat the  yolks  and
 sugar  together; then add the
 whites  and  flour. 
 Spice  to suit taste. 
 
 
  SIMPLE SPONGE CAKE. 
 Miss S. M. Three
 eggs;  one cup of  sugar,  and
one of  flour.  Beat the  eggs 
very light; then add the  sugar;  and stir in the
 flour,  and one teaspoonful of
 water.  Flavor to taste. 
  
 
  SPONGE CAKE. 
 Miss Armstrong. Take twelve
 eggs  and weigh them; take their weight in
 sugar,  and one half their weight in
 flour;  two small  lemons,  or
one very large one, grated. Bake in a hot oven. 
 
 
  SPONGE CAKE. 
 Mrs. A. F. Payne. One pound of
 powdered sugar;  one half pound of
 flour;  ten  eggs;  the
 juice of one lemon,  and a little
 salt.  Beat the  yolks  until
very light; then stir in the  sugar,   lemon
juice  and  salt;  then add part of the
 flour,  and part of the
 whites,  beaten stiffly; then the remainder of the
 flour,  and, lastly, the remaining
 whites.  
 
 
  COCOANUT SPONGE CAKE. 
 Miss Mary Gebhart. Beat the
 yolks of six eggs,  with one half pound of
 sugar;  one quarter pound of
 flour;  add one teaspoonful of  lemon
essence.  Stir in the  whites of eggs 
beaten to a froth; add the  grated pulp of one
cocoanut.  
 
 
  COCOANUT POUND CAKE. 
 Mrs. J. A. McMahon. One pound of
 butter;  one of  flour;  one of
 sugar;  one of  cocoanut,
grated,  and ten  eggs.  Beat the
 butter  and  sugar  to a cream;
put the  cocoanut  in before the
 flour;  beat the  eggs 
separately, and mix like other cake. Bake three hours in a moderate oven. 
 
 
  COCOANUT CAKE. 
 Miss Maggie Connelly. One cupful of
 butter;  three of  sugar,  and
four of  flour;   whites of eight
eggs;  one cupful and three tablespoonsful of
 milk;  one teaspoonful of
 soda;  two and one half of  cream
tartar;  one and one quarter of  grated
cocoanut  in the cake; mix the  butter  and
 sugar  with your hand; then add the  milk (use that of the
cocoanut);  mix the  cocoanut  with the
 flour,  and add the  eggs  last.
Bake in square pans. Use the following 
 ICING. 
  Whites of three eggs;  two cups of
 sugar;  three fourths of a cup of  grated
cocoanut.  Spread thickly all over the top and sides; set in the
 oven  with the door open for a few minutes. 
 
 
  ALMOND CAKE. 
 Miss Mary Brady. One cupful of
 butter;  two of  sugar;  three
of  flour;  one of  sweet milk; 
the  whites of eight eggs;  one teaspoonful of
 cream tartar;  one half teaspoonful of
 soda,  and two pounds of
 almonds,  blanched and powdered fine in
 rose water.  Best when several days old. 
 
 
  HICKORY NUT CAKE. 
 Mrs. Munger. Two cupsful of
 sugar;  three fourths of a cupful of
 butter;  three cupsful of
 flour,  mixed with three teaspoonsful of
 baking powder;  three fourths of a cupful of
 sweet milk;   whites of six
eggs,  and one pint of  nuts,  rolled
fine. 
 
 
  HICKORY NUT CAKE. 
 Mrs. Dr. Smith. Three tumblersful of
 sugar;  one of  butter;  a
little more than one of  milk;  four of
 flour;  one teaspoonful of
 soda;  three  eggs,  beaten
separately;  essence of lemon;  one and one half pints
of  kernels,  chopped fine, and two tablespoonsful of
 raisins,  chopped. 
 
 
  WATERMELON CAKE. 
 Mrs.
Graham.  WHITE  PART.--Two cups of
 sugar;  one half cup of
 butter;  one of  sweet milk; 
two teaspoonsful of  baking powder;  two and one half
cups of  flour,  and one
 lemon.  
 PINK PART.--Made the same as the white, except use  pink sugar  (which can be bought at the
confectioners), and one half pound of  raisins.  Put the
 raisins  in the  sugar.  Put the
pink part all in the center of the pan, and the white on the outside. 
 
 
  COFFEE CAKE. 
 Mrs. J. D. Dubois. One cup of
 butter;  one of  sugar;  one of
 molasses;  one of  raisins;  one
of  cold coffee;  three of
 flour;  two  eggs;  a piece of
 citron,  cut small;  nutmeg  and
 cinnamon.  
 
 
  "ERIE" COFFEE CAKE. Three cups
 brown sugar;  one of  butter; 
one of  cold coffee;  three
 eggs;  three teaspoonsful of
 soda;  two of  cinnamon;  one of
 cloves;  one of  nutmeg,  and
three and one half cups of  flour.  
 
 
  CITRON CAKE. 
 Mrs. H. Conover.  Whites of
twelve eggs;  two cups of  butter;  two cups
of  sugar;  four and one half cups of
 flour;  one half cup of  milk; 
one teaspoonful of  soda,  two of  cream
tartar,  and one pound of  citron.  
 
 
  CURRANT CAKE. 
 Mrs. H. C. Two cups of
 butter;  two cups of  sugar; 
one cup of  milk;  four cups of
 flour;  one teaspoonful of
 soda;  two of  cream tartar; 
one pound of  currants,  and seven
 eggs.  
 
 
  BREAD CAKE. 
 Mrs. J. F. Edgar. Three cups of
 light dough,  before it is kneaded; three cups of
 sugar;  one cup of  butter; 
four  eggs;   spice, 
 cinnamon,  and  cloves.  Mix
together thoroughly; let it rise until very light, then mix pretty stiff with
 flour,  add what  fruit  may be
desired, and one teaspoonful of  soda.  Divide in two
cakes, and let rise again. Bake three hours. 
  
 
  FRUIT CAKE. 
 Mrs. G. A. Black. One cup of
 butter;  one of  sugar;  one of
 molasses;  one of  sweet milk; 
three of  flour;  four  eggs; 
 cinnamon,   cloves,  and
 allspice  to taste; one teaspoonful of
 soda;  two of  cream tartar, 
and two pounds of  raisins.  
 
 
  FINE FRUIT CAKE. 
 Mrs. A. F. Payne. One pound of
 powdered sugar;  one of
 butter;  one of  flour;  twelve
 eggs;  two pounds of  raisins; 
two of  currants;  one half pound of
 citron;  one tablespoonful of  powdered
mace;  one of  cinnamon;  two
 nutmegs,  grated; mix a large wine glass of
 Maderia wine,  and one of
 brandy,  together, and steep the
 spices  in it over night. Flour the
 fruit  before adding it to the cake. Bake in two
loaves. 
 
 
  BLACK FRUIT CAKE. 
 Mrs. T. M. McCormick. Four cups of
 sugar;  two of  butter;  one of
 molasses;  one of  brandy; 
eight of  flour;  one half pint of  sour
cream;  eight  eggs;  two pounds of
 raisins;  two of  currants,  and
two of  almonds;  one half pound of
 citron;  one tablespoonful of
 cloves;  one of  saleratus;  one
 lemon,  and two  nutmegs, 
grated. 
 
 
  BLACK CAKE. 
 Mrs. John W. Green. One pound and one
quarter of  butter;  one pound of  brown
sugar;  one of  flour;  three of
 raisins,  seeded and chopped; two of
 currants;  one of  citron,  cut
thin and small; one of  figs,  chopped; thirteen
 eggs;  one wine glass of  Maderia
wine,  and two of  brandy;  one teacupful of
 molasses;  one large  nutmeg, 
grated; two teaspoonsful of  cinnamon;  one of
 mace,  and one of  cloves.  Beat
the  butter  and  sugar  until
very light; then stir in one fourth of the  flour; 
 whisk  the  eggs,  very stiff, and add them gradually; then the remainder of the
 flour,  one half at a time; after beating well, add the
 wine,   brandy,  and
 spices,  then mix all the
 fruit  together, and add one third at a time. Beat
well;  butter  and line the pan with white paper; put in
the mixture, and smooth with a  knife.  Bake in a moderate
oven, about four hours. 
 
 
  FRUIT CAKE. 
 Mrs. Mary C. King. Two cups of
 butter;  two and one half cups of
 sugar;  two and one half of cups
 molasses;  eight of  flour;  two
of  sour milk;  eight  eggs;  two
teaspoonsful of  soda;  three pounds of
 raisins;  three of  currants; 
one of  figs;  one of  citron; 
two  lemons,  grated; two tumblers of
 currant jelly;  one half pint of
 brandy;   cloves, 
 mace,   cinnamon,  and
 nutmegs.  Mix  flour  and
 fruit  alternately. Bake three and one half hours. 
 
 
  GINGER FRUIT CAKE. 
 Mrs. S. Craighead. One half pound of
 butter;  one half pound of
 sugar;  six  eggs,  beaten
separately; one pint of  molasses;  one pint of
 sour milk,  in which put one tablespoonful of
 soda;  three pints of  sifted
flour;  one wine glass of  brandy;  three
tablespoonsful of  ginger;  one of
 cinnamon;  one of  nutmeg, 
grated; one teaspoonful of  cloves;  one pound of
 raisins,  mashed, with the seeds in; one pound of
 currants;  one half pound of
 citron;  put the  whites of the
eggs  in last. To be baked in a slow oven. This will make two
cakes, and will keep several weeks. 
 
 
  DRIED APPLE FRUIT CAKE. 
 Mrs. Lucy Green. Two cupsful of
 dried apples  soaked over night; chop fine and simmer
slowly in two cups of  N. O. molasses  until it looks
dark. When cool, add one cupful of  butter;  one half
cupful of  sugar;  three cupsful of
 flour;  one cupful of  sweet
milk;  two teaspoonsful of  cinnamon;  two
of  cloves;  two of  allspice;  three of
 baking powder;  one half pound of
 raisins,  and three  eggs.  If
you wish, add one cupful of  currants  and one quarter
cupful of  citron.  Bake in a slow oven two and one half
hours. 
 
 
  FRENCH LOAF CAKE. Two and one half cupsful
 powdered sugar;  one and one half cupsful of
 butter;  five of  flour;  one of
 milk;  one half glass of  wine; 
one half glass of  brandy;  one half pound of
 raisins;  two ounces of
 citron,  cut in small pieces; one  nutmeg,
grated,  and one tablespoonful of  baking
powder.  Stir the  sugar  and
 butter  to a cream; then add part of the
 flour,  with the  milk 
(slightly warmed), and the beaten  yolks of the eggs; 
then the remainder of the  flour,  and the
 whites of the eggs,  well beaten; add the
 spice,   wine, 
 brandy,  and  baking powder. 
Mix thoroughly together; put the  fruit  in last. This
will make two loaves. Bake one and one quarter hours. 
 
 
  SPONGE GINGERBREAD. One cup of
 sour milk;  one of  molasses; 
one half cup of  butter;  two
 eggs;  one and one half teaspoonsful of
 soda;  one quart of  flour,  and
one large tablespoonful of  ginger.  
 
 
  BLACK GINGER-BREAD. Three cupsful of
 molasses;  one of  butter;  one
of  sour cream;  five cupsful of
 flour;  four  eggs;  one ounce
of  ginger;  one teaspoonful of
 soda  in the  cream; 
 fruit  if you like. 
 
 
  GINGER-BREAD. 
 Mrs. D. W. Iddings. One pint of
 molasses;  one glass of  sour milk or
cream;  one tablespoonful of  soda;  one
half pint of  melted lard.  Put the
 soda  into the  molasses  and
 milk,  and beat to a foam. Make the dough very
soft. 
 
 
  MARBLE CAKE. 
 Miss J. A. E.  Whites of
seven eggs;  three cups of  white sugar; 
one of  butter;  one of
 milk;  four of  flour;  one and
one half teaspoonsful of  baking powder.  Dark
part-- Yolks of seven eggs;  two cupsful of
 brown sugar;  one of  butter; 
one of  milk;  one of  Orleans
molasses,  and four of  flour;  one
tablespoonful of  baking powder;  one of
 cinnamon;  one of  allspice, 
and one half tablespoonful of  cloves.  Put some of the
white mixture first into the pan, then with a large spoon drop in some of the
dark, alternating until all is used. This will make one large and one small
cake. 
 
 
  CHOCOLATE MARBLE CAKE. 
 Miss Sallie C. Wight. One cupful of
 butter;  two cupsful of  sugar; 
one of  sweet milk;  three of
 flour;   whites of five eggs; 
two teaspoonsful of  cream tartar,  and one of
 soda.  Take one teacupful of the batter and stir into
it one large spoonful of  grated chocolate;  wet with a
small tablespoonful of  milk;  fill cake dish about one
inch deep with the white batter; then drop in two or three places a spoonful of
the dark mixture; continue this until the batter is all used. 
 
 
 LAYER CAKES. 
 
  CHOCOLATE CAKE. 
 Miss Lina Miller. The
 yolks of three eggs;  one and one half cupsful of
 sugar;  three quarters of a cupful of
 butter;  one cupful of  milk; 
three teaspoonsful of  baking powder; 
 flour  enough to stiffen; bake in jelly cake pans. 
 ICING. 
  Whites of three eggs  beaten stiff; add
 white sugar  enough to sweeten; nine tablespoonsful of
 sweet chocolate,  grated; mix well and spread on each
layer while a little warm. 
  
 
  CHOCOLATE CAKE. 
 Blossom Brown. One cupful of
 sugar;  one half cupful of
 butter;  one half cupful of
 milk;  two  eggs;  one and one
half teaspoonsful of  baking powder;  two cupsful of
 flour;  bake in thin layers. For filling, take one half
cake of  sweet chocolate,  grated; one half cup of
 sweet milk;  one half cupful of
 sugar;   yolk of one egg;  one
tablespoonful of  vanilla.  Boil in a pan set in a
kettle of  boiling water,  until stiff, like jelly. When
cool, spread it between the layers. 
 
 
  SPRINGFIELD ALMOND CAKE. Two cupsful of
 sugar;  one of  butter;  one of
 milk;  four of  flour;  five
 eggs;  two teaspoonsful of  cream
tartar,  and one of  soda.  Bake in jelly
cake pans. Make a custard of one cupful of  sour cream; 
one  egg;  one half pound of
 almonds,  blanched and chopped fine; one tablespoonful
of  sugar.  Flavor it with
 vanilla.  Do not spread the custard on until the cake
is cold.  If you can not procure sour cream, take
 jelly;  flavor, and mix
 almonds  with it, and spread between
layers.  
 
 
  ORANGE CAKE. 
 Mrs. G. W. Rogers. One cupful of
 butter;  two of  sugar;  one of
 milk,  and three and one fourth cupsful of
 flour;  five  eggs,  leaving out
the whites of three; one and one half teaspoonsful of  baking
powder;   juice of one orange.  Bake in
jelly cake tins and spread between the layers an icing made of the
 whites of three eggs  and enough
 sugar  to make it stiff;  juice of one and
grated rind of two oranges.  
 
 
  LEMON CAKE. One cupful of
 butter;  four of  flour;  three
of  sugar;  one of  sweet milk; 
five  eggs;  one tablespoonful of  baking
powder;   juice and rind of one lemon.  Bake
in flat tins. 
  
 
  AMBROSIA CAKE. 
 Miss Louie Myers. One half cupful of
 milk;  three fourths cupful of
 butter;  two cupsful of  sugar; 
three of  flour;  four  eggs; 
three teaspoonsful of  baking powder.  Bake in
 jelly cake pans.  When cold, spread with one pint of
 cream,  whipped; one grated
 cocoanut;  two  eggs;  one
cupful of  sugar;  two  oranges; and the
grated rind of one.  
 
 
  JELLY CAKE. 
 Miss Ellen P. Dickson. Five
 eggs;  four cupsful of  flour; 
three cupsful of  sugar;  one cupful of
 butter;  one cupful of  sour
cream;  three fourths teaspoonful of
 soda.  
 
 
  WASHINGTON CAKE. 
 Mrs. J. T. Wolf. Two cupsful of
 sugar;  one half cupful of
 butter;  three cupsful of
 flour;  three teaspoonsful of  baking
powder;  seven  eggs;  one half cupful of
 sweet milk.  
 FILLING 
 Three  tart apples  grated; one cupful of
 white sugar;  one  egg;  the
 grated rind and juice of one lemon.  Boil about two
minutes; then let it stand to cool before spreading on the cake. 
 
 
  RAILROAD CAKE. One cup of
 sugar;  one of  sweet milk;  two
of  flour;  one teaspoonful of
 butter;  two of  baking powder, 
and three  eggs,  beaten separately. Mix, and bake
immediately; use shallow pans. While hot, spread on
 jelly,  and roll up. This will make two cakes. 
 
 
  ROLLED SPONGE CAKE. Two
 eggs;  two cupsful of  sugar; 
two of  flour;   essence of lemon or
brandy  to taste. Bake in thin sheets; spread the
  jelly  on while warm, and
roll up. Use it while fresh. It makes a nice pudding with  wine
sauce.  
 
 
  SPONGE CUSTARD CAKE. 
 Miss Louie Myers. Six
 eggs;  two cupsful of  sugar; 
three of  flour;  three teaspoonsful of
 baking powder,  and four tablespoonsful of
 water.  
 CUSTARD. 
 One pint of  milk;  one half cupful of
 butter;  put it into the  milk 
and let come to a boil; then stir in two  eggs;  one
cupful of  sugar;  two small teaspoonsful of
 corn starch;  spread this between the layers of
cake. 
 
 
  SPONGE COCOANUT CAKE. 
 Miss Mary Gebhart. Take one pint of
 sugar;  one of  flour;  eight
 eggs,  beaten separately, and one tablespoonful of
 water;  mix, and bake in  jelly cake
pans.  
 FILLING. 
 One  cocoanut, grated;  one cupful of
 sugar;  one of  cream; 
 butter  the size of an egg; warm it a little; mix
thoroughly, and spread it between the layers. The cake is nicest when
fresh. 
 
 
  COCOANUT CAKE. 
 Mrs. W. A. B. One cupful of
 butter;  three of  sugar;  three
of  flour;  one half cupful of  sweet
milk;   whites of ten eggs  well beaten;
three teaspoonsful of  baking powder.  Beat
 butter  and  sugar  to a cream;
add  flour,   milk,  and
 baking powder;  and last, stir in the
 eggs  very lightly. Bake in a moderate oven, in pans
one inch deep. Make three cakes. 
 ICING. 
 Three  eggs;  one pound of
 sugar;  two  cocoanuts grated; 
one  lemon.  Beat the
 eggs  to a stiff froth; then add the
 sugar  and  lemon juice.  Put
one cake on a stand; while warm, spread on the icing; then sprinkle thick with
 cocoanut.  Lay on another cake and do the same. At the
last, spread icing all over the top and edges and put on as much
 cocoanut  as will adhere. 
 
 
  WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 
 Mrs. I. Van Ausdal. One pound of
 flour;  one of  sugar;  one half
pound of  butter;  one teacupful of  sweet
milk;  six  eggs,  beaten separately; one
teaspoonful of  soda;  two of  cream
tartar;  the  grated rind and juice of
onelemon.  Bake in  jelly cake pans  put icing
between the layers. Previous to icing, dredge with
 flour.  
 ICING. 
 One half teacupful of  water;  three of
 sugar,  and the  whites of three
eggs.  Boil the  sugar  and
 water  until quite thick; pour it on the
 whites of the eggs  (previously beaten), and beat all
together until cool. 
 
 
 
 SMALL CAKES. 
 
  GOOD COOKIES. 
 Mrs. Dr. McDermont. Five
 eggs,  beaten light; four tablespoonsful of
 cream;  one half pound of
 butter;  two cups of  white
sugar;  two teaspoonsful of  cream tartar; 
one of  soda.  When rolled out sprinkle with
 sugar,  and roll again; cut into small cakes. 
 
 
  AUNT BETSEY'S COOKIES. Twenty ounces of
 sugar;  ten of  butter;  two
teaspoonsful of  saleratus;  two teacupsful of
 milk;   caroway seed,  and
 flour  to make it stiff enough to roll. 
  
 
  CANADA COOKIES. 
 Mrs. Munger. One half pound of
 butter;  one half pound of
 sugar;  one pound of  flour; 
two  eggs;  rub the  butter  and
 sugar  to a cream; beat the
 eggs  well together; add
 flour,  and roll out very thin; sprinkle with
 white sugar,  and bake quick. 
 
 
  COOKIES. 
 Mrs. Fred Lange. Two coffee cups of
 brown sugar;  one of  butter; 
five of  sifted flour;  one
 egg;  one half cupful of  milk; 
one half teaspoonful  cream tartar;  one fourth
teaspoonful  soda,  in the
 milk;  roll thin; bake in a quick oven. 
 
 
  SAND TARTS. Two cups of
 sugar;  one of  butter;  four
 eggs,  leaving out the  yolk  of
one. Beat the  butter  and part of the
 sugar  together, and the remainder with the
 eggs;   flour  enough to make a
very stiff dough. Roll thin; wet the top with  white of
egg;  sprinkle with  sugar  and
 cinnamon,  and put  blanched
almonds  over the top. 
 
 
  GINGER NUTS. 
 Mrs. Gibbs. Three pounds of
 flour;  one of  butter;  one
pint of  molasses;  two teaspoonsful of
 saleratus;   ginger  to the
taste. 
 
 
  GINGER SNAPS. 
 Mrs. Mary E. Mitchell. One pint of
 molasses;  one and one half coffee cups of
 butter;  two and one half cups of
 sugar;  one half cup of  water; 
two  eggs;  one tablespoonful of
 ginger;  one heaping teaspoonful of
 soda.  Mix all together with
 flour  to make a soft dough; roll very thin, and bake
in a quick oven. 
 
 
  GERMAN CRACK CAKE. 
 Amelia. One cupful of
 sugar;  three quarters pound of
 flour;  four  eggs,  leaving out the
 whites  of two; beat all together, and bake in a
biscuit pan. Sprinkle  sugar  and
 cinnamon  over the top. Bake in a quick oven; while
warm (before taking out of the pans), cut in squares. 
 
 
  NANCY'S DOUGHNUTS. Two small cupsful of
 sugar;  one cupful of  sweet
milk;  three  eggs;  one tablespoonful of
 melted butter;  one small teaspoonful of
 soda,  and two of  cream
tartar.  Mix with  flour  as soft as they
can be rolled out. Fry in  hot lard.  
 
 
  RAISED DOUGHNUTS. Two cupsful of
 sweet milk;  one of  lard;  one
and one half cupsful of  white sugar;  one cupful of
 yeast;  two  eggs;  a little
 grated nutmeg  and  salt;  add
 flour  enough to make a thick batter; let it rise until
very light; knead well, roll out and cut with a  biscuit
cutter,  and cut the center out with a  canister
top;  put them on a floured board to rise again. When light, fry in
 hot lard.  
 
 
  THE QUEEN OF DOUGHNUTS. 
 Mrs. Mary Spinning. One half pound of
 butter;  one tablespoonful of
 lard;  three quarters of a pound of
 sugar;  five  eggs;  one and one
half pints of  milk,  and coffeecupful of
 home made yeast.  Heat the
 milk  and  sugar  together; mix
with them  flour  enough to make a stiff dough; heat the
 butter  and  lard;  pour over
the dough when very hot, and work in well with the hands; add the
 eggs  beaten separately,  cinnamon or
nutmeg,  and then the  yeast;  let stand
until light; pinch off pieces about as large as a walnut; roll into balls and
fry in  hot lard.  When done, and while warm, sift
 powdered sugar  over them. 
 
 
  EXCELLENT CRULLERS. 
 Mrs. J. Langdon. One
 egg;  four tablespoonsful of
 sugar;  one pint of  sweet buttermilk;  one tablespoonful of
 butter or lard;   flour  enough
to make a soft dough. 
 
 
  CRULLERS. 
 Mrs. H. L. Brown. To five tincupsful
of  flour  put two teaspoonsful of
 soda;  four teaspoonsful of  cream
tartar;  five  eggs;  one and one half
tincupsful of  sugar;  one fourth pound of
 butter  and pint of  milk;  add
 cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  
 
 
  CRULLERS. 
 Mrs. Dr. Smith. Two cupsful of
 sugar;  one half cupful of
 butter;  one half teaspoonful of
 soda  dissolved in a cupful of  sour
milk;   cinnamon or nutmeg  to taste; four
 eggs;   flour  enough to make a
soft dough. 
 
 
  DROP GINGER CAKES. 
 Mrs. William Craighead. One pint of
 molasses;  one teacupful of
 sugar;  one cupful of  butter; 
four  eggs;  two tablespoonsful of
 ginger;  same of  ground
cinnamon;  one teaspoonful of  salt;  one
tablespoonful of  soda  in a half teacupful of
 hot water;   flour  enough to
make a stiff batter. Drop on  tins  and bake. 
 
 
  SAVORY CAKES. 
 Mrs. Ashley Brown. Beat four
 eggs, whites and yolks  separately; put them together,
and add one half pound of  white sugar;  beat very hard;
stir in slowly one quarter pound of  sifted flour; 
flavor with  vanilla;  drop with a spoon in thin cakes
on white paper; grate  loaf sugar  over the top, and
bake in a quick oven. 
 
 
  SHREWSBERRY CAKES. 
 Miss Armstrong. One pound of
 flour;  one pound of  sugar; 
one half pound of  butter;  three
 eggs;  flavor with  cinnamon or caraway
seed.  Drop on  tins.  
  
 
  CHOCOLATE JUMBLES. 
 Miss Jennie A. Edgar. One pound of
 sugar;  one half pound of  chocolate,
grated;   whites of eight eggs,or four whole ones beaten
very light;  six ounces of  flour;  one
teaspoonful of  cinnamon;  one of
 cloves.  Drop with a teaspoon on well buttered
 tins.  
 
 
  CHOCOLATE PUFFS. 
 Miss Joan Rench. Beat stiff the
 whites of two eggs,  and beat in gradually one half
pound of  powdered sugar;  scrape down very fine one and
one half ounces of  best chocolate (prepared cocoa is
better),  and dredge it with  flour  to
prevent it oiling; mix the  flour  well with it; then
add the mixture of  egg  and
 sugar,  and stir all very hard. Cover the bottom of a
square tin pan with a sheet of white paper; place upon it spots of
 powdered sugar  about the size of a half dollar; put a
portion of the mixture on each spot, smoothing it with a broad knife dipped in
 cold water;   sift white sugar 
over the top of each; bake a few minutes in a brisk oven. When cold, loosen
them with a  broad knife.  
 
 
  DROP JUMBLES. One pound of
 sugar;  three fourths of a pound of
 butter;   yolks of eight eggs, or four whole
ones;  one cup of  sour cream;  one
teaspoonful of  soda;  one pound of
 currants;   flour  sufficient to
make the batter thick enough to drop from a spoon. Bake in buttered pans. 
 
 
  COCOANUT JUMBLES. One pound of
 cocoanut,  grated; three fourths of a pound of
 sugar;  three  eggs;  large
ironspoonful of  flour;  drop on buttered pans. 
 
 
  ALMOND MACAROONS. 
 Mrs. M. Eells. One half pound of
 almonds,  blanched and pounded with a little  rose water  or
 essence of lemon;  one half pound of  white
sugar;  two  eggs; whites  well beaten. Dip
your hands in  water  and work the mixture into balls
the size of a hickory-nut. Put them in a cool oven and bake a light brown.
  Cocoanut can be grated and made into macaroons  in
the same way.  
 
 
  EGG KISSES. 
 Miss Irene Stout. Take one half pound
of  granulated sugar,  and the  whites of
four eggs,  beaten very stiff; put writing paper in a pan, and drop
in spots with a teaspoon. Bake in a slow oven three quarters of an hour. 
 
 
  MERANGUES. 
 Mrs. D. W. Stewart. The
 whites of nine eggs,  beaten to a froth; mix with them
one pound of  powdered sugar.  Drop on paper with a
teaspoon and bake a light brown, putting the paper on a board (not pine) on the
bottom of a pan, in the oven. When done, fill with  whipped
cream  flavored with  lemon.  
 
 
  COCOANUT CAKES. Grate the  white
part of one cocoanut;  allow an equal weight of  white
sugar;  add the  grated rind and juice of one
lemon.  Mix the ingredients well; make into cakes the size of a
nutmeg with a little piece of  citron  in each. Bake on
buttered  tins  about twenty minutes in a moderate
oven. 
 
 
  MADELEINES. Blanch and chop rather fine
some  sweet almonds.  Mix well together in a bowl three
ounces of  flour;  three of
 sugar,  and two  eggs;  then add
one ounce of  melted butter  and a few drops of
 essence,  to flavor. Butter slightly small tin moulds,
and dust with equal parts of  sugar  and
 flour.  Fill the  moulds  about
two thirds full; spread the almonds over the top and bake in a quick oven. To
be eaten cold. 
  
 
  CREAM CAKES. 
 Miss Birge. Boil in one half pint of
 water  three fourths of a cupful of
 butter,  and stir in one and three fourths cupsful of
 flour.  Take from the fire; put into a large bowl and
stir in five  eggs,  one at a time, without beating, and
one half teaspoonful of  soda (dry).  Drop in pans half
the size you wish them; bake in a quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes. 
 FILLING FOR THE ABOVE. 
 One quart of  milk;  five
 eggs;  one and one half cupsful of
 sugar;  two tablespoonsful of  corn
starch;  flavor with  lemon or vanilla.  
 
 
  BOSTON CREAM CAKES. 
 Mrs. I. Baldwin. One pint of
 water;  one half pound of
 butter;  three fourths of a pound of
 flour;  ten  eggs.  Boil the
 water,  with the  butter  in it;
stir in the  flour  dry while it boils; when cool, add a
teaspoonful of  soda,  and the
 eggs  well beaten. Drop the mixture on buttered pans
with a desertspoon. Bake twenty minutes. 
  CREAM.  
 One cupful of  flour;  two of
 sugar;  one quart of  milk  and
four  eggs.  Beat the  flour, 
 sugar  and  eggs  together and
stir them into the  boiling milk.  When the mixture is
sufficiently scalded, set it to cool; flavor with
 lemon.  When the cakes are cool, cut them open and fill
in the  cream.  
 
 
 
  
 PICKLES AND RELISHES. 
 In preparing pickles, avoid the use of metal vessels. If pickles are kept in
them any length of time they will become poisonous. When it is necessary to
boil vinegar, do it in a porcelain kettle, or in a stone jar on top of the
stove. Always use the best vinegar. A small quantity of alum is an improvement
to pickles, but too much is injurious. Keep them in either  glass or
hard stoneware.  
 
  CUCUMBER PICKLES. 
 Mrs. G. W. Rogers. Two hundred small
sized  cucumbers;  three tablespoonsful of
 white mustard seed; three of black;  three of
 celery seed;  one handful of  juniper
berries,  one handful of small  green
peppers;  two pounds of  sugar,  and a few
small  
 unions. 

  Let the  cucumbers  stand three days in
 salt water  closely covered. Boil a little
 alum  in a half gallon of
 vinegar,  and pour over the
 cucumbers  scalding hot; repeat three or four times.
When ready to bottle, add one half pound of  ground
mustard,  and one bottle of  English
chow-chow.  Take the  vinegar  from the
chow-chow and mix with it sufficient  cold vinegar  to
cover well the pickles. Seal up in glass jars. 
 
 
  CUCUMBER PICKLES. 
 Mrs. T. A. Phillips. Wash your
 cucumbers  well, and place them in  stone
jars.  To every gallon of
 vinegar  add one half teacupful of
 salt;  one ounce of  ginger
root;  one ounce of  allspice;  one ounce of
 cloves;  one ounce of
 cinnamon;  one ounce of  black
pepper.  Boil the  vinegar  and
 spices  together for three mornings and pour over the
pickles hot; cover them closely. Will be ready for use in three days. 
 
 
  CUCUMBER PICKLES. 
 Mrs. James R. Wallace. Let the
 cucumbers  lie in  salt water 
forty-eight hours; put together two quarts of  vinegar; 
some  cinnamon;   red peppers 
and  horse radish,  and let them boil hard for fifteen
minutes; then throw in the pickles and put in enough
 vinegar  to cover them. Let them scald, not boil; then
set the kettle upon the stove and let the pickles remain in it (kept hot) until
they are green; then pack them in jars and scald  fresh
vinegar,  adding one pint of  sugar  to
every gallon of  vinegar,  and pour over the pickles.
Seal them tight. 
 
 
  GHERKINS. 
 Mrs. J. R. Young. Put the
 gherkins  in  brine  for a week;
if they are salty, soak one day; then take a kettle and line it with
 grape leaves;  put the
 gherkins  in and cover them with
 vinegar;  put in a piece of
 alum  the size of a hickory-nut; let them stand on the
coolest part of the  stove  all day and keep warm but not
boil. If the  vinegar  is salty, put on fresh. Put the
 spices,   cloves, 
 cinnamon,   mace, 
 allspice,  and  pepper  in a
separate vessel with  vinegar  and boil. Pour it over
the  gherkins  and they are done. 
 
 
  INDIA PICKLES. 
 Admiral Schenck. One gallon of best
 vinegar;  three ounces of
 salt;  one half pound of  flour of
mustard;  two ounces of  turmeric;  three
ounces of  white ginger;  one ounce of
 cloves;  one of  mace; 
 one of  white and long
peppers  each; four ounces of  chalots 
peeled; two ounces of  garlic  peeled; two ounces of
 cayenne pepper.  The  mustard 
and  turmeric  must be rubbed together with a little
 cold vinegar  and stand until smooth; stir in the other
ingredients just before it boils. As soon as it boils, remove it; let it cool
and it is fit for use. 
 
 
  YELLOW PICKLES. 
 Mrs. R. P. Brown. Six gallons of best
 vinegar;  six ounces of
 turmeric;  six of  white
ginger;  six of  long peppers;  one of
 mace;  one of  cloves;  two of
 white mustard;  one of  white
pepper;  two of  celery seed;  two pounds of
 brown sugar;  two handsful of
 garlic;   oranges  and
 lemons  to taste. Into this pickle put any
 vegetable  preferred, prepared as follows: Soak in
 cold brine  for one week; after which expose them to
the sun through the day; at night return them to the
 brine;  then soak four days in
 vinegar  and afterward put them into the pickle.
  Onions  should have  boiling
brine  thrown over them and stand four or five days; then bleach as
the others.  Vegetables may be prepared as they come in season. This
pickle will keep for years. 
 
 
  STUFFED CUCUMBERS. 
 Mrs. H. Strong. Let the
 cucumbers  lie in  brine  four
or five days; then cut open one side, and scrape out the inner part. If the
inside is very salty, let them lie in  cold water  until
the next day; if not, two or three hours will answer. 
  STUFFING.  
  American mustard seed, 
 cloves,   black pepper, 
 red pepper pods,  small
 onions,   celery seed,  and
 horse-radish,  chopped fine. 
 
 
  FILLING FOR CUCUMBER MANGOES. 
 Miss Louie Phillips. One half pound of
 white mustard seed;  one ounce of  cloves;  one of  black
pepper;  two of  celery seed;  one cup of
 horse-radish,  grated; one  pod of
garlic  in each  cucumber;  four
tablespoonsful of  table mustard;  eight of
 oil,  and one of  turmeric.  Mix
the  mustard  in  cold water, 
and boil; when cold, stir in the  oil  and
 turmeric,  and then mix with the other ingredients.
  Onions, cabbage, and tomatoes  may be chopped with
the filling, if desired.  
 
 
  RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLES. Take
 bright yellow cucumbers,  firm but not soft; pare and
cut them in strips, and, after removing the seeds, put them in a
 weak brine  for twelve hours; pour off the
 brine,  and scald them in  alum
water  until clear; wash in  cold water, 
and drain. To one gallon of  vinegar,  take three and
one half pounds of  sugar;  one  stick of
cinnamon,   nutmeg,  and
 mace.  Boil, and pour over the
 cucumbers;  repeat two or three times. 
 
 
  SLICED CUCUMBER PICKLES. Take one peck of
medium sized  cucumbers,  and one half dozen
 onions;  slice, and sprinkle with
 salt;  let them lie three or four hours, then drain,
and boil in  vinegar  for ten minutes, with the
following  spices : one half pound of  yellow
mustard seed;  two tablespoonsful of
 cloves;  one of  mace;  one of
 turmeric,  and two of  brown
sugar.  Pack in jars, and tie paper closely over them. 
 
 
  GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 
 Mrs. Judge Sherman. One peck of
 green tomatoes,  sliced thin; sprinkle with
 salt,  and let them stand one night; slice twelve
 onions;  put with the
 tomatoes,  and boil in  vinegar 
for two hours, with the following  spices : four ounces
of  white mustard seed;  four of  ground
mustard;  one half ounce of  turmeric;  one
ounce of  cloves;  one of
 allspice;  one of  ginger;  one
of  pepper;  one of  cinnamon; 
one fourth of a teacupful of  salt;  and one half pound
of  brown sugar.  
  
 
  FRENCH PICKLES. One half peck of
 green tomatoes;  one dozen of  white
onions;  slice thin, and sprinkle with
 salt;  let stand over night; drain in a cullender; then
put them into a porcelain kettle; cover with  vinegar 
and  water,  equal parts; boil slowly one hour; then
drain one half hour. Take one and one half gallons of
 vinegar,  and three pounds of  brown
sugar;  boil and skim; then add one half teacupful of
 French mustard;  one ounce each of  ground
cloves,   allspice, 
 cinnamon,   black pepper,  and
 turmeric.  Mix to a smooth paste with
 water,  and stir into the
 vinegar  while boiling. Use  stone
jars;  put in a layer of pickles, and then a cup of the mixture.
They are ready for immediate use. 
 
 
  PICKLED TOMATOES. Take  red
tomatoes,  not very ripe, puncture slightly with a fork, and cover
them with  strong brine;  let them remain six or eight
days; then soak them twenty-four hours in  vinegar  and
 water;  drain off, and, for every gallon your vessel
holds, take six ounces of  ground mustard;  four of
 ginger;  two of  celery seed; 
one of  cloves,  and one dozen  white
onions,  sliced. Mix the  spices  all
together; put a layer in the bottom of the jar; then
 onions  and  tomatoes,  and so
on, alternately, until the jar is full. Fill up with  strong
vinegar.  
 
 
  PICKLED TOMATOES. 
 Mrs. A. C. C. Take
 pear-shaped tomatoes,yellow and red mixed;  wash them
off, and put in  narrow mouthed vessels,  so that they can
be made air tight; to a quart of  tomatoes,  take a
teaspoonful of  salt,  some  ginger
root,   cinnamon, 
 mace,  and small  red peppers 
mixed in among them; make the jars full, and fill up with
 vinegar.  Set in a cool, dark place. In three or four
weeks they will be ready for use. 
 
 
  GREEN TOMATO PICKLES (SWEET). Scald and
peel full grown  green tomatoes;  drop them into
 strong  ginger tea,  and
scald well. For every two pounds of  tomatoes,  take a
pound of  sugar  and a pint of
 vinegar;  make a syrup of this, and drop in the
 fruit;  let them cook until perfectly clear; add
 mace,   cinnamon,  and
 white ginger.  Cover well with the syrup and tie up
closely. 
 
 
  WALNUT PICKLE. 
 Mrs. E. F. Stoddard. Take
 white walnuts  fresh and tender; put them in
 salt and water  for three days; then put in the sun
until they turn black. Take half a pound of  mustard
seed;  two ounces of  pepper;  one half
ounce of  cloves;  one half ounce of
 mace;  one half ounce of
 nutmeg,  and a  good stock of
horse-radish,  boiled in one gallon of
 vinegar.  Cover the walnuts close, and let them remain
three or four weeks.  Pour off the liquid for
 catsup,   if desired, and bottle it, covering the
walnuts again with  cold vinegar.  
 
 
  SMALL WHITE ONION PICKLES. Take small
 white onions,  and peel them; lay them in
 salt water  for two days; change the water once; then
drain them in a cloth, and put them in bottles; boil
 mace,   pepper,  and
 vinegar  together; let it cool, and pour over the
pickles. 
 
 
  ONION PICKLES. 
 Mrs. L. G. Evans. Put
 white onions  on the stove in  warm
milk;  when they commence to boil take them out and rub the outside
skin off with a coarse towel; then put them in jars and sprinkle them lightly
with  salt;  add a very little
 mace;  about six  sticks of
cinnamon  as long as your finger; a little
 horse-radish,  and plenty of  red pepper
pods.  Cover them well with  vinegar.  
 
 
  PICALILY. 
 Mrs. J. F. Edgar. Take
 green tomatoes  chopped very fine; sprinkle well with
 salt;  let stand twenty-four hours; drain off and put
in a   stone jar.  Take about
half the quantity of  cucumbers,  and the same of
 cabbage;  after they are chopped, put into jars
separately, and cover with  cold vinegar.  Take about
one quarter as much  white onions  chopped;
 salt  and pour  boiling water 
on them; let stand a few hours; drain off and cover with
 vinegar  as above. Let all remain several days in a
cool place; then press very dry and mix together; add some  yellow
and black mustard seed,   celery seed,  and
a bountiful supply of  grated horse-radish,  with a few
 green peppers,  chopped fine. Then take the best
 vinegar  and about four pounds of  brown
sugar  to each gallon. Boil it in part of the
 vinegar;  scum well, and pour over the whole. Add as
much  cold vinegar  as is required. 
 
 
  CHOW-CHOW. Two dozen large
 cucumbers  sliced; three quarters of a peck of
 green tomatoes  sliced; twelve large
 peppers (red and green)  sliced; one fourth peck of
small  white onions  peeled; one pint of small
 red peppers.  Sprinkle one and one half pints of
 salt  over them and let stand all night. In the morning
drain them well; then add one ounce of  mace;  one ounce
of  white mustard seed;  one half ounce of
 cloves;  one ounce of  celery
seed;  one ounce of  turmeric;  three
tablespoonsful of  ground mustard;  one large piece of
 horse-radish  cut up; cover all with
 vinegar  and boil half an hour, or until tender. 
 
 
  PICALILY WITHOUT TOMATOES. 
 Mrs. Roger Stemble. Two
 heads of cabbage;  four dozen
 cucumbers;  one dozen  green
peppers;  one of  white onions;  chop all
but the  onions;  sprinkle with
 salt;  let them stand one hour; drain well; then cover
with  cold vinegar  and let stand twenty-four hours;
chop the  onions;  pour  hot
water  over them; squeeze it out and mix all together. To one
gallon of the mixture add one half pound of  sugar;  one
pint of  mustard seed;  a little
 mace  and
 cloves.  Boil the  spices  in
the  vinegar  and pour over hot. 
 
 
  OIL PICKLE CABBAGE. 
 Mrs. W. B. Trim and quarter six
 heads of good cabbage;  boil in
 vinegar  and  water  until a
broom splint can be passed through them. Prepare a paste of one half pint of
 best sweet oil;  one pound of  white
mustard;  one half pound of  black mustard; 
one quart of chopped  horse-radish;  one ounce of
 celery seed;  one ounce of
 turmeric;  one teacupful of  brown
sugar.  Put down one layer of  cabbage; 
then cover with the above mixture, and alternate in this way, covering each
layer with  good vinegar.  
 
 
  SPICED NUTMEGS. 
 Mrs. John Rench. Take small
 nutmegs,  not quite ripe; pare and quarter them; cover
with  vinegar  and let stand twenty four hours. Then
measure out one quart of the  vinegar,  and to each
remaining quart add two pints of  brown sugar;  then add
the quart of  vinegar  that has been measured out; put
the  vinegar  and  sugar  on to
boil a few minutes. Tie the  spices, 
 cloves,   cinnamon  and
 mace  in a bag and put in a jar with the
 nutmegs  and pour the  vinegar 
over them. Boil this  vinegar  once a day for three
successive days The third time drop in the  nutmegs  and
let them boil fifteen minutes; then put them in  stone
jars,  and in three weeks they will be ready for use. 
 
 
  WATERMELON PICKLES. 
 Mrs. T. A. Phillips. Pare off the
 green of the water melon rinds;  cut in squares, and
cover with  weak alum water,  poured on hot; let it
stand twenty-four hours; then soak in  rain water  until
well cleansed of the  alum;  put in a kettle; cover with
 pure water,  and boil until tender; then press the
water out with a  napkin.  Make a syrup of equal
quantities of  vinegar  and  sugar;  add one  stick of
cinnamon,  and  race ginger.  Put the
 fruit  in and cook till clear; then take it out and
cook the syrup a little more. 
 
 
  PICKLED PLUMS. 
 Mrs. Theodosia Dubois. Seven pounds of
 plums;  three of  sugar;  one
ounce of  cinnamon;  one of
 cloves,  and one quart of
 vinegar.  Put in a jar a layer of
 plums  and a layer of  spice; 
boil the  sugar  and  vinegar, 
and pour it over the  plums  three days in succession,
and the fourth day boil  spices  and all together. They
will keep for years. 
 
 
  SWEET GRAPE PICKLE. 
 Mrs. Admiral Schenck. Seven pounds of
 fruit;  four pounds of  sugar; 
one quart of  vinegar.   Spices 
should be tied in a thin cloth, and boiled in the syrup, which should be poured
boiling hot, for three successive days, on the  grapes. 
After that they may be put away for use. 
 
 
  CHERRY PICKLES. 
 Mrs. G. W. R. Two pounds of
 cherries;  one pound of  sugar; 
one half pint of  vinegar;  pour on boiling seven
mornings in succession; the last time, if  amber
cherries,  put them in and boil a few minutes; add
 cinnamon.  
 
 
  SWEET PICKLE CHERRIES. 
 Mrs. Dr. Craighead. To seven pounds of
 fruit  take one quart of
 vinegar  and three of  sugar; 
one half teacupful of  broken cinnamon,  and a few
 cloves.  Seed one half the
 cherries  and stew them rich. 
 
 
  SPICED APPLES. Eight pounds of
 apples,  pared; four pounds of
 sugar;  one quart of  vinegar; 
one ounce of  stick cinnamon,  and one half ounce of
 cloves.  Boil the  sugar, 
 vinegar  and  spices  together;
 put in the  apples  when
boiling, and let them remain until tender. Take them out and put in a jar; boil
down the syrup until thick, and pour it over. 
 
 
  SPICED CURRANTS. 
 Mrs. J. L. Brenner. Three pounds of
ripe  currants;  two pounds of
 sugar;  one tablespoonful of
 cinnamon;  nearly one half tablespoonful of
 allspice;  one half tablespoonful of
 cloves,  and nearly one half pint of
 vinegar.  Boil all one half hour. Put into close
 glass jars.  
 
 
  SPICED PEACHES. 
 Mrs. W. A. B. Pare and halve one peck
 peaches,  and place in a  stone
jar;  boil three pints of  vinegar  and three
pounds of  sugar;  skim, and pour over the
 fruit;  repeat three times, every other day; the third
time, add, while boiling, one half ounce of  cloves; 
one ounce of  cinnamon,  and one quarter ounce of
 mace unground.  
 
 
  SWEET PICKLE PEACHES. 
 Miss B. Pease. One quart of
 vinegar,  and four pounds of
 sugar;  boil, and skim; peel seven pounds of
 fruit;  put in and boil until a little soft; take them
out; heat the syrup three times, and pour over hot; the last time, boil it
down. If not as sweet as desired, a little more  sugar 
may be added. 
 
 
  SWEET PICKLE PEACHES. 
 Mrs. Wm. Craighead. To twelve pounds
of  peaches  take six pounds of
 sugar  and one pint of
 vinegar;  add  spice  to
taste. 
 
 
  SWEET CRAB PICKLES. Put half a bushel of
 crab apples  in a kettle with
 vinegar  enough to cover them, and cook until tender;
then take them out of the vinegar and put them in
jars. Measure the  vinegar  and add a pint more than
will cover the  fruit,  and to each pint add one and one
half pints of  brown sugar;  one handful of
 stick cinnamon;  three tablespoonsful of
 cloves,  and two of  mace.  Tie
the  spices  in a bag and boil in the
 vinegar  half an hour; then put the
 fruit  in the jars and cover with the
 vinegar.  
 
 
  TO PICKLE PEARS WHOLE. 
 E. A. E. Take three pounds of
 pears;  peel them and cut out the ends, leaving the
stems in; put them into a  preserving kettle,  with one
quart of  water,  and boil until a fork will go through
them easily; then lay them out on a dish; add to the
 juice  one and one half pounds of
 sugar;  one pint of  vinegar; 
some  stick cinnamon,   whole
cloves,  and  race ginger.  Boil all five
minutes, and skim; put in the  pears  and boil them
until the syrup thickens; then take them out in a jar, and, after the syrup has
boiled a little longer, pour it over them. If, after standing a few days, the
syrup should become thin, take it off and boil again. 
 
 
  TO PICKLE NASTURTIONS. Take
 green nasturtions  fresh from the vines; put them in
 salt  and  water  for one day;
then drain in a napkin. Put them in glass jars and cover with
 strong vinegar;  keep the bottles closely corked. Are
equal to capers, with  roast lamb.  
 
 
  
 The following 38 recipes in this chapter are handwritten. 
 Italian Cream (Fairfield) 
 1 quart rich milk - 1 oz sheet isinglass - put in a bucket - Set the bucket
in hot water until the isinglass dissolves &#38; let boil a few minutes -
Sweeten quite sweet - after it has boiled strain thro a thin cloth &#38; stir
or pour it until it is quite cool - While it is cooling beat a pint of rich
cream, that has been standing on ice, to a stiff froth, then pour the milk
&#38;c into the cream, slowly beating the cream all the while - add one
spoonful vanilla 
 Artificial Oysters 
 Grate as many cans of (green) as will make one pint of pulp add one tea cup
of flour - 1/2 do of butter - 1 egg - pepper &#38; salt to suit taste. Dropped
and fried in butter. 
 Cream Cake 
 1 cup cream - 1 do sugar - 2 flour - 2 eggs - 1 tea spoon soda - flavor with
lemon  
 Water Muffins. 
 1 quart flour - 1/2 teacup yeast - 1 tablespoonful salt - warm water to make
a thick batter - beat it with a spoon - let it rise 8 hours - bake it in muffin
rings half full - 15 or 20 minutes - 
 Cookies 
 1 cup butter - 2 sugar 1 cold water 1/2 tea-spoonful saleratus - 2 eggs -
flour enough to roll and no more. 
 Corn Bread 
 1 quart milk - 2 table spoons of saleratus - 4 oz butter - 3 eggs - 3 table
spoons flour - Corn meal to make stiff batter - 
 Crullers 
 6 table spoons melted butter 6 do sugar - 6 eggs - flour to roll - fry in
hot lard -  
 Green Tomato Chow Chow 
 1/2 bushel green tomatoes - 12 onions - 12 peppers - all chopped fine -
sprinkle over the whole 1 pint salt - Let stand over night drain off brine -
cover with vinegar - cook slowly in porcelain kettle one hour - drain off the
vinegar - pack in a jar there take 2 pounds of sugar - 2 table spoons cinnamon
- one do allspice - one do cloves - one blackpepper - half cup ground mustard 1
pint horse radish - vinegar enough to cover the pickle - mix the ingredients
with the vinegar - heat all quite hot, pour over and cover tight. 
 Currant Soy 
 5 pd currants ripe - 3 do Brown sugar - 1 table spoon pepper - 1 do cloves 1
do cinnamon - 1 tea-spoon salt - half pint vinegar - small measure - stir one
hour - 
 Cholera Medicine (Hills) 
 1 table spoon Laudanum - 1 do spts camphor - 1 do capsicum - 1 do spts
Hartshorn - 1 pint best brandy - Teaspoonful 1 dose - mix with sweetened
water  
 Siberian Crab Jelly 
 Take off the stems &#38; cut open - weigh &#38; mash them - To each 1 1/2
pds add a pint of water &#38; boil gently until they are broken - but do not
allow them to fall to a pulp - Pour the whole into a jelly bag. When the juice
is transparent weigh it - put into a clean kettle &#38; boil quickly for 10
minutes - Take it from fire &#38; dissolve in it ten oz fine sugar to each
pound of juice - boil from 12 to 15 minutes longer, skim it clean &#38; pour
into jelly dishes - Should the quantity be large a few additional minutes
boiling must be given to the juice before the sugar is added. 
 Grape Jelly 
 14 ounces of sugar to each pound of grapes - 
 Quince Jam 
 12 oz brown sugar to 1 pd quince - Boil fruit in little water as possible
until it will mash easily - pour off water - mash fruit with spoon - add sugar
- boil 20 minutes - stir often.  
 Quince Jelly 
 Pare, quarter - core &#38; weigh some ripe but quite sound quinces as
quickly as possible - and throw them as they are done into a pint of the water
in which they are to be boiled - allow one pint of water to each pound of
fruit, and simmer gently until it is broken, but not so long as to redden the
juice which should be very pale - Turn the whole into a jelly bag and let it
drip without the slightest pressure - weigh the juice &#38; put it in a clean
kettle and boil quickly 20 minutes - Take it from the fire and stir in until
dissolved twelve or fourteen ounces sugar (if the fruit should be very acid) to
each pound of juice - Put it back on the fire &#38; keep it constantly stirred
and cleaned from scum from 10 to 20 minutes longer or until it jellies - 
 Cherry Jam 
 12 pd Ripe cherries - 1 pd sugar - break the stones of part and blanch them
- put them to the fruit and sugar and boil all quickly, until the jam comes
clear of the pan  
 Waffles - 
 1 lb flour - 1/2 do butter - 4 eggs 1 quart milk - 1 tea spoon yeast boil
the milk stir in the butter, beat up warm &#38; let rise - 
 Lemon Pickle 
 Wipe six Lemons - cut each into 8 pcs - put on them 1 pound of salt - six
large cloves of garlic - 2 oz Horse radish sliced thin - Likewise of cloves -
mace - nutmeg &#38; Cayene Pepper 1/4 oz each, &#38; two oz flour of mustard.
To these put 2 quarts vinegar - Boil 15 minutes in a well tinned sauce pan or
in a jar set in a kettle of boiling water. 
 Set the jar by for six weeks - stir daily and keep close covered - Then put
into small bottles. 
 Tomato Pickles 
 8 lbs skinned tomatoes - 4 do brown sugar. put in preserving kettle &#38;
stir often to prevent burning - Boil to the thickness of molasses add 1 qt good
cider vinegar - 1 teaspoon mace - do cloves and boil 5 minutes longer.  
 Fruit Fritters 
 Make a batter of milk flour, eggs, whatever richness desired. Stir into it
either Raspberries, Currants or other fruit. Fry in hot lard. 
 Pan Cakes 
 Beat 3 eggs 1 qt milk - make a batter with flour, little salt - spoonful
ground ginger, little grated lemon peel. Let it be of a fine thickness and
perfectly smooth - Clean the frying pan thoroughly, put in a good lump of
dripping or butter, heat hot and pour in a cup full of batter, let it run all
over of an equal thickness - shake the pan frequently that the batter may not
stick When done on one side turn it, baking both sides a nice light brown - Lay
it on a dish before the fire - strew sugar over it &#38; so do the rest. To be
eaten directly or they become heavy - 
 The above is a good batter if thickened a little more for apple
fritters  
 To Stew Red Cabbage 
 Slice a small, or half a head, of red cabbage, wash it &#38; put into a
saucepan with pepper &#38; salt, add water but what hangs about it and a piece
of butter. Stew till quite tender. On serving add 2 or 3 spoons full of vinegar
&#38; give it a boil over the fire. Serve it with cold meat or with sausage on
it. 
 To Pickle Red Cabbage 
 Slice it - in a cullender and sprinkle each layer with salt, let it drain
two days, then put it into a jar and pour boiling vinegar enough to cover. Put
in a few slices of red beet root - If you like spice boil it with the vinegar.
Cauliflower cut in bunches and thrown in after being salted will look a
beautiful red  
 Pickled Onions 
 In September take some small white round onions - take off the brown skin
have ready a stew pan of boiling water, throw in as many onions as will cover
the top - As soon as they look clean on the outside take them up as quickly as
possible and lay them on a clean cloth, cover them closely with another then
scald more and so on. Let them lay on the cloth until cold. Put them in a jar
pour over them best vinegar just hot but not boiling. When cold cover them -
Should the outer skin shrivel, peel it off - They must look quite clear
-  
 Chocolate Cake 
 Two cups sugar - 2/3 cups butter - 1 cup sweet milk - 3 cups flour 3 eggs
two teaspoons baking powder lemon extract - Bake as jelly cakes - 
 Caramel - The whites of 3 eggs beaten very stiff - 2 cups sugar boiled until
almost candy - pour very slowly on the whites beating them quite fast - 1/2
cake Baker's chocolate grated - vanilla extract - stir until cool - then fill
between each cake to cover the top &#38; sides - 
 Lemon Jelly Cake 
 2 cups sugar - 3/4 cup butter - 1 cup milk - 3 cups flour - 2 tea spoons
baking powder - 4 eggs - Bake in layers. 
 Jelly - 2 lemons pulp &#38; peel - 1 coffee cup sugar - butter size of an
egg - &#38; 2 eggs - mix &#38; boil till clear - 
 
 
 Lightning Cake (Bess Hull)  1 1/4 cups
flour  1 " sugar  1 teaspoon B. Powder  pinch
salt  Mix  1/4 cup melted butter  drop in 1
egg  Fill cup up with sweet milk.  Flavor &#38; beat
well.    
 Cinnamon Cake 
 1 cup sour cream - 1 cup sugar 1/2 cup melted butter - 1 egg - 1/2 tea spoon
soda - Mix as for cookies roll out &#38; spread ground cinnamon over the top -
then roll up as a roll jelly cake &#38; slice off with a sharp knife &#38; bake
- Any good 
 cookey 

recipe will do - 
 Caramel Cake 
 3 cups sugar - 1 1/2 cups butter - 1 cup milk - 4 1/2 cups flour - 5 eggs -
2 tea spoons baking powder - Bake in layers 
 Caramel for filling - 1 1/2 cups brown sugar 1/2 cup milk - 1 cup molasses 1
tea spoon butter - 1 table spoon flour 2 table spoons cold water - Boil this
mixture 5 minutes - add 1/2 cake Bakers chocolate (grated) - boil till the
consistency of custard - add a pinch of soda - stir well &#38;, remove from the
fire - when cold flavor with vanilla - spread between the layers &#38; on top
of the cake &#38; set it in a sunny window to dry -  
 Ginger Bread 
 Two tea cups New Orleans molasses 2 cups boiling water 3/4 cup melted butter
- 1 table spoonful ginger - 2 teaspoons soda - add flour to make a smooth
batter - beat well 
 Lemon Pie 
 Yolks of 2 eggs - 1 cup sugar the juice &#38; grated rind of 1 lemon 1 1/2
cups cold water 2 table spoons flour &#38; 5 of water mixed for thickening -
Bake till done but not watery - Beat the whites to a stiff froth &#38; stir in
3/4 cup sugar - spread over the top &#38; brown in oven  
 Frosting Icing &#38;cc 
 Beat 1/4 lb pulverized sugar with the juice of 1 larger lemon - add the
white of 1 egg beaten to a stiff froth. 1 table spoon rum or Annak - Beat till
snowy white - put over your cake &#38; dry in a warm oven - 
 Chocolate frosting - 
 1 cake or (1/2 lb) Maillard's French vanilla sweet chocolate grated - 1/2
cup granulated sugar - 3/4 cup sweet milk. 1 table spoon butter a little salt -
Boil 20 minutes stirring constantly Take from the fire &#38; pour into a dish
When near cool add 1 table spoonful vanilla - spread on the cake - If mixture
is thicker than jelly thin it with milk - This quantity will be 2 cakes 3
layers each - 
 Another 
 Whites of 3 eggs beaten very light 9 table spoons powdered sugar 6 table
spoon grated chocolate - make a
cream or custard pie reserving for frosting the whites of 3 eggs using the
yolks &#38; 1 or 2 whole eggs for the pie - While the pie is baking scrape very
fine 2 table spoons Baker's Chocolate &#38; place it on the back part of the
stove to melt - Now beat the whites of the eggs well - add 6 tea spoons
pulverized sugar - When the chocolate is melted, stir a little of the frosting
it beating very hard - add a little more, till all is added - Do not make the
mistake of stirring the chocolate into the egg as it will remain clouded - When
the fire is done pour the frosting on top &#38; return to the oven for 5
minutes - It is better to warm chocolate to make it soft to mix in frosting or
Charlotte Russe, than to dissolve in water - 
 Icing 
 2 1/2 cups sugar - 2/3 cup water - Boil together until it candies - Then add
the whites of 3 eggs slightly beaten - stirring briskly for 15 minutes or until
perfectly smooth &#38; white - Then add the juice of 1 lemon - This is
sufficient for   white mountain cake of 8 or 9
layers  
 Another 
 Beat the whites of 4 eggs with   powdered sugar,
sifted over 1/2 table spoon starch &#38; 1/4 ounce fine gum Arabic - stir it
well 
 Chocolate icing 
 The whites of 2 eggs 1 1/2 cups powd sugar - 6 large table spoons Choco 
 Chocolate filling - 
 Whites of 3 eggs - 1 1/2 tea cups sugar 3 table spoons grated chocolate 1
tea spoon vanilla - Beat the whites of the eggs well, then add the other
ingredients - then beat all tog &#38; spread between the layers &#38; on top of
the cake -  
 Crab Apple Jelly 
 Wash &#38; halve the apples cut out the blossom - put them into a porcelain
lined kettle. turn boiling water on them but not enough to cover them &#38;
cook until very soft - stirring occasionally to prevent burning - remove from
the fire &#38; let them cool off some - then put them into a bag made double
from a piece of an old table cloth coarse &#38; soft - &#38; then squeeze - in
consequence of having the bag double none of the pulp gets through - put the
juice into the kettle to boil removing the scum as it rises until perfectly
clear &#38; continue to boil a few minutes longer - then measure it - add the
same amt. of sugar (granulated) &#38; boil a little over 1/2 hour or until it
is jelly - if when cold it is not thick enough it can be heated over
  
 End of handwritten recipes. 
 
  
 Canned Fruits &#38;
Vegetables. 
 
  CANNED PEACHES AND PEARS. 
 Mrs. P. P. Lowe. Of
 peaches, the white heath clings  are preferred; of
 pears, the flemish beauty.  Take white clings tolerably
ripe; pare and keep them covered in a deep jar until ready to use; then to
three pints of  seeded peaches  put one pint of
 water  and four tablespoonsful of  pure
white sugar;  cook them a few minutes, or until a silver fork will
enter them easily, but not enough for the  fruit  to
break; then put in cans and seal immediately. This quantity usually fills a one
quart can. Pare only enough for four cans, and put them up before preparing
more, unless two or three persons are at work; then let one person can
steadily, using two kettles, and putting in each enough to fill two quart cans.
First put in your kettle the  water;  add the
 sugar,  and when that is dissolved put in the
 peaches.  Can as soon as possible after peeling to
prevent their discoloring by exposure to the air. 
 
 
  CANNED PEACHES. 
 Mrs. J. R. Reynolds. Take nice ripe
 peaches;  after paring, put them in a boiling syrup of
 sugar  and  water,  (four
tablespoonsful to one quart); cook ten minutes. Can and seal boiling hot. 
  
 
  BRANDY PEACHES. 
 Mrs. J. R. Young. Take nice
 peaches,  pared smoothly; scald them in an
 ordinary syrup  until soft enough to run a straw in;
place them in a jar; make a  fresh, rich syrup.  To one
pint of  syrup  add one pint and a half of best
 whisky;  pour this over your
 peaches  and let stand over night; if the syrup looks
thin, boil over and add more  sugar.  
 
 
  TO PRESERVE PEACHES FOR PIES. Take five
pounds of  sugar  to fifteen pounds of
 peaches;  boil half an hour; then add one and one half
pints of  vinegar  and let boil fifteen minutes. Bottle
and seal up. 
 
 
  TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES. 
 Miss Armstrong. To two pounds of fine
large  strawberries,  add two pounds of
 powdered sugar;  put them in a preserving kettle over a
slow fire until the  sugar  is melted; then boil them
precisely twenty minutes, as fast as possible. Have ready a number of small
jars and put the  fruit  in boiling hot; cork and seal
the jars immediately; keep in a dry place. The jars must be heated before the
hot  fruit  is put in, otherwise they will break. 
 
 
  PRESERVED QUINCES. 
 Mrs. Theodosia Du Bois. Take fine
 apple quinces;  cut them in half; pare and remove the
cores; weigh them, and to each pound of  quinces  allow
one of  sugar.  Then put them into a kettle; cover with
 cold water  and boil until they are tender enough to
pass a  broom splint  through. Take out one at a time, and
put them on dishes to cool and drain. Put  sugar  in a
kettle with  water  enough to dissolve it; then put the
 quinces  into the syrup and let them cook until of a
light color, skimming them all the time. Do not let them remain long, or they
will  turn dark. Lay them on dishes, and when cool
put in jars. Skim the syrup and strain through a  hair
sieve  and pour over the  quinces.  
 
 
  BLACKBERRIES. Allow one pint of
 currant juice  and one pint of
 water  to six pounds of
 blackberries.  Give them their weight in
 sugar;  boil until the syrup is rich. 
 
 
  PRESERVE CRAB APPLES. Put the
 crab apples  in a kettle with  grape
leaves  in and around them, and a small bit of
 alum.  Keep them scalding hot about one hour; then take
them out; skin and take out the seeds with a  small
knife,  leaving on the stems; lay them in  cold
water.  Make a syrup of one pound of  sugar 
to one pound of  apples;  wipe and put them in; stew
gently until they look clear; take them out and boil the syrup longer. 
 
 
  TO PRESERVE ORANGES. Boil the
 oranges  in  soft water  until
you can run a straw through the skin. Put three quarters of a pound of
 sugar  to each pound of  fruit; 
take the  oranges  from the
 water  and pour the hot syrup over them; let them stand
over night; next day boil them in the  syrup  until it
is thick; then take them out and strain it over them. 
 
 
  GREEN GAGE PLUMS. Take an equal quantity of
 fruit  and  sugar;  pour
 boiling water  on the  plums 
and wipe them dry; prick them. Then make a syrup of the
 sugar  and one half pint of
 water;  when it boils put in half the
 plums;  let them do slowly until they look clear; then
take them out and put in the balance. If the syrup is thin, boil it longer. 
 
 
  CITRON MELON. Pare the
 melons;  take out the seeds, and cut in squares half an inch thick; lay in
 salt  and  water  one hour; then
wash off and boil in  strong ginger tea.  Make a weak
syrup of  sugar  and  water  and
boil ten minutes; then make a syrup of one pound of
 sugar  to one pound of  citron; 
boil in this until it looks clear; season with  lemon
peel.  
 
 
  GOOD APPLE SAUCE. Peel, quarter and core as
many  apples  as you desire; put them in a vessel with
just enough  water  to stew them. While they are cooking
have a vessel on the fire with one half pint of  water; 
one tablespoonful of  butter;  one of
 sugar,  and one quarter of a  nutmeg,
grated.  When this boils, stir in enough paste thickening to make
it of the consistency of cream; put your  apples  in a
dish and pour this over them. 
 
 
  RASPBERRY JAM. 
 Mrs. S. Craighead. Take the best of
 red antwerp strawberries;  to every pound of
 fruit  allow three quarters of a pound of
 white sugar;  mash them up well and mix with the
 sugar.  Put them into a preserving kettle (porcelain is
best), and let them boil one half hour, skimming them frequently; put into
close  glass jars;  keep in a cool, dark place. 
 
 
  JAM. 
 Mrs. Theodosia DuBois. Seven pints of
 white currants;  ten of  red
raspberries;  twelve pints of  sugar.  Boil
slowly one half hour; then put in the  sugar,  and boil
well three quarters of an hour, stirring most of the time to prevent its
burning. 
 
 
  PEACH JAM. Take ripe  freestone
peaches;  pare and cut in small pieces; to every pound of
 peaches  allow one half pound of  white
sugar;  put the  sugar  over the
 peaches  and let them stand two hours; then put them
into a  porcelain kettle  on the fire, and boil slowly; stir all the time until the
 fruit  is mashed smooth, and it almost jellies; put
into  glass jars.  
 
 
  CHERRY JAM. To each pound of
 cherries  allow three quarters of a pound of
 white sugar;  seed them; and as you do so throw the
 sugar  gradually into the pan with them; cover, and let
them stand over night; next day boil them until they form a thick paste. 
 
 
  ORANGE MARMALADE. Separate the pulp from
the skin and seeds of the  oranges;  soak the
 skins  over night in  cold
water;  (if the oranges are bitter put a little
 salt  in the  water).  Scrape
the skins well, carefully removing all the white; then cut the yellow part into
shreds, as fine as possible, and add to the pulp. Add one pound of
 sugar  to every pound of
 fruit.  Boil twenty minutes. 
 
 
  PINEAPPLE JAM. Peel
 pineapples,  carefully cutting out black specks with a
penknife; grate on a coarse grater. Use one pound of
 sugar  to one pound of
 pineapple;  boil until clear (about three quarters of
an hour). Put in small  glass jars,  and seal up. 
 
 
  TOMATO JAM. Take one half pound of
 sugar  to one pound of
 tomatoes;  put together in a  stone
jar  and let stand twenty-four hours; then take off the juice and
strain it. Put it in a porcelain kettle; bring to a boil, and skum; then put in
the  tomatoes  with a handful of  stick
cinnamon  tied in a cloth; stir all the time. About ten minutes
before removing from the fire, take out the  cinnamon 
and add one teacupful of  good vinegar  to one gallon of
 jam.  Boil until the jelly will not separate. 
 
 
  FOR CANNING CORN. 
 Mrs. J. R. Young. Get the best
 sweet corn;  scald it on the ear, and cut it off while hot; put it in a pan over a kettle of
 boiling water,  to keep it hot until you get enough cut
to fill a can. Have a kettle of  weak brine  boiling in
a  porcelain kettle.  Fill your can within an inch of the
top with  corn;  then cover it with the
 brine,  leaving room for it to swell; seal the can
while boiling hot. 
 
 
  FOR CANNING CORN. Dissolve one and one
fourth ounces of  tartaric acid  in one half pint of
 water;  cut the  corn from the
cob;  put it in a vessel over the fire, and bring to the boiling
point; to each pint of  corn  allow one tablespoonful of
this solution. Boil one half hour, stirring occasionally; then put the
 corn  in quart cans, and seal tightly. When wanted for
use, pour the  corn  into a bowl, and stir in two thirds
of a teaspoonful of  soda  to each quart of
 corn.  Let it stand one hour before cooking. 
 
 
  TO CAN GREEN CORN. Cut the  corn
off the cob;  pack very closely into quart cans; then solder so
that every particle of air is excluded. Set the cans in a kettle of
 cold water  and bring it to a boil; let the
 corn  boil two and a half hours in this sized cans
(larger cans will require more time). When done pour  cold
water  into the kettle to cool the cans and enable you to remove
them carefully. 
 
 
  
 Drinks for Family Use. 
 
  TO MAKE CHOCOLATE. Take three
tablespoonsful of  chocolate  (scraped) and dissolve it
in one teacupful of  boiling water;  add to it one pint
more  water,  and when it comes to a boil, stir in as
much  milk  as is desired. Boil five minutes. 
 
 
  TO MAKE COFFEE. First have the
 coffee  roasted an even, rich brown; do not grind it
too fine; allow one tablespoonful of  ground coffee  for
each cup of  coffee;  put it into the  coffee
boiler;  stir into it the  white of one egg, 
and just enough  cold water  to mix it; then pour on
 boiling water.  For six tablespoonsful of
 coffee  put in three pints of
 water;  boil twenty minutes; set it aside, and pour in
one teacupful of  cold water  to settle it; then
transfer it to the  urn.  
  Coffee for forty persons--three pints of  ground
coffee  and two gallons of
 water.   
 
 
  TO MAKE TEA. First scald the teapot; pour
out that  water,  and put in two teaspoonsful of
 green tea;  add a cupful of
 water;  let it stand ten minutes; fill up with
 boiling water.  
 
 
  GRAPE WINE. To every quart of
 grape juice,  take one pound of
 sugar,  and one quart of
 water.  Put it in jugs, filling them, and keeping out
enough to supply the jugs as it works over; when it is done fermenting, put the
corks in loosely, and let stand six weeks; then bottle, and cork tight. 
 
 
  ELDERBERRY WINE. To two quarts of
 berries,  put two quarts of
 water;  boil half an hour; strain the liquor through a
 hair sieve;  then to every quart, put three quarters of a
pound of  brown sugar;  four ounces of
 ginger,  and two of  cloves. 
Boil the whole fifteen minutes. Pour it into a tub, and, when cool, put in a
jug or keg, with a piece of  toast  dipped in
 yeast.  Keep it in a warm place; in four or five days
put in one pint of  brandy.  It will be ready to bottle
about Christmas. 
 
 
  BLACKBERRY WINE. Measure the
 berries  and bruise them; to every gallon, add one
quart of  boiling water;  let them stand twenty-four
hours, stirring occasionally; strain the juice through a  flannel
bag;  to every gallon, add two pounds of  brown
sugar;  pour it into a cask, and let it stand till through
fermenting; then bung up tight. 
 
 
  CURRANT WINE. 
 Mrs. J. F. E. Take one quart of
 juice;  two of  water,  and
three pounds of  sugar;  dissolve the
 sugar  in the  water;  then mix
all together, and fill the vessel to the brim, leaving the bung out until
fermentation ceases; fill up every morning with fresh
 juice  and  water,  so that the
skum may throw itself off; when it has stopped fermenting, add two quarts of
 whisky  to one barrel. Bung up tightly, until February
or March, when it may be racked off and bottled. 
 
 
  CURRANT SHRUB. To a pint of strained
 currant juice,  put a pound of
 sugar;  boil gently
together eight or ten minutes; then set it to cool; when lukewarm, add a wine
glass of  brandy  to every pint of syrup; bottle, and
cork tight. Keep in a cool place. 
 
 
  RASPBERRY SHRUB. 
 Mrs. Graham. One gallon of
 red berries,  and one half gallon  cider
vinegar;  let it stand over night; then strain; put in six pounds
of  white sugar;  let it boil; skim, and let it stand
until cool; then bottle it, and when used, put in two thirds  ice
water.  
 
 
  RASPBERRY VINEGAR. Put two quarts of
 raspberries  in a  stone jar; 
pour over them one quart of the very best  vinegar;  let
it stand twenty-four hours; then strain, and pour the liquor over fresh
 fruit,  and let it stand in the same way; allow one
pound of  sugar  to a pint of
 juice;  put it into a stone jar, and set in a pot of
 boiling water  for one hour; skim well; put into
bottles, cork and seal tight. Diluted with  water,  it
is a very nice drink for the sick.  Toasted bread  may
be eaten with it. 
 
 
  STRAWBERRY ACID. Twelve pounds of
 fruit;  two quarts of  water; 
five ounces of  tartaric acid.  Put the acid in the
 water,  and, after it is dissolved, pour it over the
 fruit;  let it remain forty-eight hours; and then
strain it. To one pint of  clear juice,  add one and one
half pounds of  white sugar;  let it stand two or three
days, stirring once or twice a day to dissolve the
 sugar,  then bottle it. Place a cork loosely in each
bottle until a slight fermentation take place, then cork tight, and keep the
bottles erect; the whole process to be cold, and no tin vessel must be used in
the making of it. 
 
 
  ELDERBERRY SYRUP. Wash and strain the
 berries,  which should be ripe; to a pint of
 juice,  add a pint of
 molasses;  boil twenty minutes, stirring constantly. When cold, add to each quart four
tablespoonsful of  brandy;  bottle, and cork tight. Is
good for a cough. 
 
 
  ORANGE SYRUP. Select ripe and thin skinned
 fruit;  squeeze the  juice 
through a sieve, and to every pint add one pound of  white
sugar.  Boil slowly ten minutes and skim as long as any skum rises;
when cold, bottle. Two tablespoonsful of this syrup, mixed with
 melted butter,  makes a good sauce for puddings. Three
tablespoonsful of it in a glass of ice  water  makes a
nice drink. 
 
 
  LEMON SYRUP. To every pint of strained
 juice,  add one pound and one quarter of
 sugar.  Let it simmer until it becomes clear; when
cold, bottle and cork tightly. 
 
 
  PINEAPPLE SYRUP. Pare and cut the
 pineapples  in pieces, and to every three pounds add a
quart of  water;  cover them, and boil until very soft;
then mash and strain. To one pint of this  juice  add
one pound of  sugar;  boil to a rich syrup, put in
bottles and cork tightly. 
 
 
  BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 
 Mrs. G. W. Rogers. To a peck of
 berries,  take one pint of
 water;  boil and strain them; to three quarts of
 juice,  add three pounds of  crushed
sugar;  boil and skim; stir in one ounce each of
 cloves  and  cinnamon;  when
cold, add one quart of best  brandy,  and two
 nutmegs,  grated; bottle and seal up. 
 
 
  QUINCE CORDIAL. Grate the
 quinces,  and strain them through a flannel bag. To
every three quarts of  juice  add one quart of
 brandy;  two pounds of
 sugar;   spice  if you wish;
bottle tight; keep in a cool place. 
 
 
  CHERRY CORDIAL. Mash and strain the
 cherries,  and, to one gallon of
 juice  put two pounds of
 sugar.  Boil together, and add one half pint of
 spirits  to a gallon. When cold, bottle. 
 
 
  SUMMER DRINK. One large
 lemon;  one ounce of  ginger
root;  one and one half pounds of  sugar; 
one gill of  yeast;  one ounce of  tartaric
acid;  two and one half gallons of  water. 
Slice the  lemon;  bruise the
 ginger,  and mix all together, except the
 yeast;  pour the  water  boiling
hot upon the mixture, and let stand until it is milk warm; then add the
 yeast  and set in a warm place for twelve hours; then
bottle; tie the corks down tightly. It will be ready for use in forty-eight
hours. 
 
 
  CREAM NECTAR. Three pounds of
 white sugar;  two ounces of  tartaric
acid  dissolved in one quart of  soft water 
over night; stir in the  whites of three eggs,  well
beaten; flavor to taste; bottle and keep in a cool place. Allow three
tablespoonsful of the syrup to one glass of  water;  add
 soda  enough to make it effervesce; put the
 soda  in the  water  first. 
 
 
  EGG NOGG. Twelve
 eggs;  one and one half pounds of
 sugar;  three pints of  cream; 
one of  new milk;  two tumblersful of
 jamaica spirits;  one of
 brandy.  Beat together for one hour; then heat over
 hot water  until milk warm; then beat until cold. 
 
 
  EGG NOGG. 
 Mrs. William Craighead. Twelve
 eggs;  one pound of  granulated
sugar;  beat the  yolks of eggs  and
 sugar  together until very light; set them over a pot of  boiling water,  beating
constantly until they are warmed through. Add from four to six wine-glasses of
 brandy,  five pints of  milk, 
and the  whites,  beaten to a stiff froth, last. 
 
 
  BEER. One pint of
 molasses;  one pint of  yeast; 
one tablespoonful of  cream tartar;  one ounce of
 ginger,  and six quarts of  cold
water;  mix and let stand twelve hours before bottling. 
 
 
  SPRUCE BEER. Take four ounces of
 hops;  boil half an hour in one gallon of
 water;  strain it; add sixteen gallons of
 warm water;  two gallons of
 molasses;  eight ounces of  essence of
spruce  dissolved in one quart of  water; 
put it in a  clean cask;  shake it well together; add one
half pint of  yeast;  let it stand and work one week; if
warm weather, less time will do. When drawn off, add one tablespoonful of
 molasses  to each bottle. 
 
 
  HARVEST BEER. To make fifteen gallons of
 beer,  put into a  keg  three
pints of  yeast;  three pints of
 molasses  and two gallons of  cold
water.  Let it stand a few minutes; then mix well together three
quarts of  molasses,  three gallons of
 boiling water  with one ounce of
 ginger,  and pour all into the
 keg;  fill it up with  cold
water.  A  decoction of sassafras  is an
addition to the flavor of the  beer.  
 
 
  
 FOOD FOR THE SICK. 
 In preparing articles of diet for the sick be careful to use cooking
utensils that are perfectly sweet and clean. 
 Food should be prepared in small quantities, and served in the most inviting
manner. 
 
  BEEF TEA. Cut one pound of
 lean, fresh, juicy beef  into thin slices; sprinkle
with a little  salt;  put it into a wide-mouthed glass
or stone jar; cover closely; set it in a kettle of
 water  which must boil hard for one hour; take out the
jar and strain the  essence of the beef  into a bowl.
  Chicken tea  may be made in the same
manner.  
 
 
  MUTTON BROTH. Boil a piece of
 mutton  until it will fall from the bone; then strain
the broth and let it get cold, so that the fat will rise, which must be taken
off; then warm the liquor and put in a little  salt. 
  Swelled rice or barley  may be added to
it.    Veal or chicken broth  is made in
the same way.  
 
 
  GRUEL FOR THE SICK. Gruel can be made from
 oatmeal,   arrowroot, 
 wheat flour  or  corn meal.  In
all cases these things should be first mixed smoothly with a little
 cold water,  and afterwards more
 water  added; boil and
season to taste. Two tablespoonsful of any of them is enough to make one pint,
when boiled. A few  raisins  boiled in gruel is an
improvement. 
 
 
  EGG GRUEL. Beat the  yolk of one
egg  with one tablespoonful of  white
sugar;  pour one teacupful of  boiling
water  on it; add the  white of the egg 
beaten to a froth, with any  seasoning or spice  you may
desire. To be taken warm. 
 
 
  PANADA. Toast a  slice of
bread  very dry, until a nice brown color, but do not scorch it;
break in small pieces into a bowl; put in  sugar  and a
little  grated nutmeg  and pour  boiling
water  over it. If the patient has no fever one half glass of
 wine  may be added. 
 
 
  BARLEY PANADA. Boil a small teacupful of
 barley  in  water  (with a few
 raisins)  until it is soft. Put in
 sugar  and a little  grated
nutmeg;  break in bits of  toast or dry
rusk  after it is taken from the fire. 
 
 
  EGG PANADA. Boil one handful of good
 raisins  in one pint of  water; 
toast a piece of  bread  nicely and cut it up into a
bowl; beat one  egg  with a teaspoonful of
 sugar  and put with the  bread. 
When the  raisins  are soft, pour them, with the
 water  in which they were boiled, over the
 toast  and  egg,  stirring all
the time; season to taste with  wine, 
 nutmeg  and  butter,  if the
patient can bear it. 
 
 
  TOAST WATER. Cut  slices of
bread  very thin; toast it dry and brown, but do not let it burn;
put it in a pitcher and pour  boiling water  on it.
 Toast water  will allay thirst better than almost any
thing else. 
  
 
  APPLE WATER, ETC. Roast two nice,
 tart apples;  mash and pour over them one pint of
 water,  or slice raw  apples 
and pour  boiling water  over them.
  Tamarinds, currant or grape jellies, cranberries or dried
fruits  of any kind, mixed with  water,  make a
good drink.  
 
 
  WINE WHEY. Boil one pint of
 milk;  when it rises to the top of the  sauce
pan,  pour in a large glassful of  sherry or maderia
wine;  let it boil up; if it separates, take it off the fire; let
it stand a few minutes, but do not stir it. Strain it through swiss muslin. 
 
 
  BUTTERMILK WHEY. Put one quart of
 buttermilk  in a  sauce pan  over
the fire; when it boils, put in the beaten  yolk of one
egg,  and, if it can be allowed, a little  cream or
butter;  beat the  white of the egg  very
light and stir in; add  sugar  and
 spice  to taste. 
 
 
  TAMARIND WHEY. Mix one ounce of
 tamarind pulp  with one pint of  warm
milk;  strain it and add a little  sugar  to
the whey. 
 
 
  MULLED WINE. Beat together one
 egg;  one glass of  wine,  and
one tablespoonful of  sugar;  add to it one half pint of
 boiling water;  stir all the time to prevent curdling;
pour it into a tumbler and grate a little  nutmeg  over
it. 
 
 
  MULLED JELLY. Take one tablespoonful of
 currant or grape jelly;  beat with it the
 white of one egg  and a little  loaf
sugar;  pour on it one half pint of  boiling
water,  and break in a  slice of dry toast or two
crackers.  
 
 
  EGG NOGG. 
 Mrs. William Craighead. Beat up one
 egg;  one and one half tablespoonsful of
 sugar;  three tablespoonsful of
 cream,  and one of liquor. 
  
 
  BLACK TEA. Put one teaspoonful of
 tea  in a vessel that will hold one pint; pour over it
two small teacupsful of  boiling water;  cover closely,
and set by the fire to draw. 
 
 
  COFFEE. Put two teaspoonsful of
 ground coffee  in a small
 tincup.  Pour  boiling water  on
it; cover and set over the fire five minutes; then let it settle and pour off
in a cup; add  sugar  and  cream 
if desired. 
 
 
  CHOCOLATE. To make a single cup of
 chocolate,  grate one desert-spoonful in a
 tincup  and pour on it a teacupful of  boiling
water;  cover and let stand over the fire five minutes; just before
taking it off, stir in a teaspoonful of  cream.  
 
 
  IRISH MOSS BLANC MANGE. Pick over,
carefully, one teacupful of  Irish moss;  wash it first
in  saleratus water;  then rinse it several times in
fresh; put it in a  tin bucket,  with one quart of
 milk;  cover closely and set in a pot of
 boiling water.  Let it stand until the
 milk  begins to thicken, then strain through a
 fine sieve,  and sweeten with  powdered
sugar;  flavor with  lemon or vanilla;  wet
the mould in  cold water;  pour in the blanc mange, and
set in a cool place. When quite firm, loosen the edges from the mold and turn
out on a dish. To be eaten with  sugar  and
 cream.  
 
 
  RYE MUSH. Take four tablespoonsful of
 rye flour;  mix smooth with a little
 water,  and stir it into one pint of
 boiling water;  boil twenty minutes, stirring
frequently. To be eaten with  cream or milk.  
 
 
  OYSTER TOAST. 
 R. L. E. Make a thick slice of well
browned and  buttered toast;  lay it in a hot dish. Put  six oysters; half a
teacupful of their own liquor,  and not quite one half teacupful of
 milk,  into a tin cup. Boil one minute. Season with
 butter,   pepper,  and
 salt,  and pour over the
 toast.  
 
 
  BOILED CUSTARD. Beat up one
 egg,  with a heaped teaspoonful of
 sugar;  put it into a teacupful of boiling
 milk;  stir until it thickens. Pour it into a bowl,
over a slice of  toasted bread. 
 Spice  to suit. 
 
 
  MEIG'S DIET FOR INFANTS. A piece of
 sheet gelatine  two inches square, soaked for a short
time in  cold water,  then boil in one half pint of
 water  about ten minutes; add, with constant stirring,
one teaspoonful of  arrowroot,  dissolved, and one half
pint of  milk;  add a little
 cream  just before removing from the fire, and a
moderate quantity of  sugar.  
 
 
  DRIED FLOUR FOR INFANTS. Take one teacupful
of  flour;  tie it up tightly in a close
 muslin bag;  put it in a pot with  cold
water;  boil three hours; then take it out and dry the outside.
When used, grate it; one tablespoonful is enough for one teacupful of
 milk  (which would be better with one third
 water);  wet the  flour  with a
little  cold water;  before stirring it into the
 milk  add a very little  salt. 
Boil five minutes. 
 
 
  BEEF TEA FOR INFANTS. Take one and one half
pounds of the best  steak;  cut it into very small
pieces, and put them into a glass jar with enough  cold
water  to cover the  meat;  tie the top of
the jar on and put it into a saucepan full of  cold
water;  place it on the fire and boil three hours. 
 
 
  
 MISCELLANEOUS. 
 
  DIPTHERIA. Make two  small bags
out of close drilling,  long enough to reach from ear to ear; fill
them with equal parts of  wood ashes  and
 salt;  wring one at a time, very dry, out of
 hot water,  and apply to the throat; cover it up with
 dry flannel;  when it becomes cold, change for a warm
one, and continue to do so until the skin is slightly irritated. For children,
put flannel between the bag and the throat; or, the
 salt  and  ashes  may be heated
before putting them into the bags, and applied dry to the throat. Make a gargle
of one teaspoonful of  molasses;  one of
 salt,  and one half teaspoonful of  cayenne
pepper;  mix these with one teacupful of  hot
water;  when cool, add one quarter of a cup of  cider
vinegar.  Gargle every fifteen minutes. 
 
 
  COUGH SYRUP. Take one ounce of
 thoroughwort;  one of  slippery
elm;  one of  stick licorice,  and one of
 flaxseed.  Simmer together in one quart of
 water  until the strength is extracted; then strain,
and add one pint of  molasses,  and one half of a pound
of  loaf sugar;  simmer well together. When cold, bottle
tight. Dose--One tablespoonful at a time, as often as the cough demands. 
 
 
  EXCELLENT COUGH MIXTURE. Take a handful of
 hoarhound;  boil in a quart of
 water;  add one pint of
 Orleans molasses,  and one pound of  brown
sugar.  Boil to a thin  syrup.  Put all in a
bottle, and add one tablespoonful of  tar.  Shake while
warm, until the  tar  is cut into small beads.
Dose--Take one tablespoonful whenever the cough is troublesome. 
 
 
  FOR A COUGH. Roast a
 lemon  very carefully, without burning it. When it is
thoroughly hot, cut, and squeeze the  juice  into a cup,
over two tablespoonsful of  powdered sugar.  Dose.--A
tablespoonful. 
 
 
  REMEDY FOR BURNS. One pint of
 lard,  warm; one tablespoonful of  brimstone
(pulverized);  one of  tar,  and one
teaspoonful of  verdigris.  
 
 
  SIMPLE REMEDY FOR RHEUMATISM. Bathe the
parts affected with  water (in which potatoes have been
boiled),  as hot as can be borne. This has been tested and found to
be very efficacious. 
 
 
  DYSPEPSIA REMEDY. One cup of
 sugar;  one pint of  bran.  Mix
well together, and brown it in the  oven  same as coffee,
stirring often. Eat of it two or three times a day. 
 
 
  CURE FOR FEVER AND AGUE. 
 Mrs. A. C. Clark. One ounce of
 Peruvian bark;  one ounce of  cream
tartar,  and sixty  cloves;  all pulverized,
and put into one quart of  whisky.  Dose--One half of a
wine glass, three times a day. 
 
 
  AGUE BITTERS. 
 Mrs. P. P. Lowe. Ten cents' worth of
 prickly ash berries;  five cents' worth of
 dogwood bark;  same of
 sarsaparilla,  and the same of  wild
cherry.  Put the above into a bottle large enough to hold them, with one quart of the best
 whisky.  Let stand a day or two before using. Dose--For
an adult, a little more than one half a wine glassful three times a day; use it
until there is only enough left for three doses for the ninth day, or whatever
day precedes the one on which the chill is likely to return. 
 
 
  ANTIDOTE FOR POISON. Swallow, instantly, a
glass of  warm water,  with a heaping teaspoonful of
 common salt,  and one of  ground
mustard,  stirred together. This will serve as an emetic;
afterward, take the  whites of two raw eggs.  If you
have taken corrosive sublimate, take one half dozen  raw
eggs,  besides the emetic; if  laudanum,  a
cup of  very strong coffee;  if arsenic, first the
emetic, then one half cup of  sweet oil, or melted
lard.  
 
 
  TO PREVENT LOCKJAW, In case of any wound or
scratch, from which lockjaw may be apprehended, bathe the parts freely with
 lye, or saleratus water.  A  rind of salt
pork  bound upon a wound occasioned by a needle, pin, or nail,
prevents lockjaw. It should always be applied until medical aid can be
procured. 
 
 
  FOR FROSTED LIMBS. Two drachms of
 beeswax;  two of  Venice
turpentine;  one and one half drachms of
 chloroform;  one half drachm of
 camphor,  and one half ounce of
 lard.  Melt the  beeswax, 
 turpentine,  and  lard,  over a
slow fire; then add the  camphor  and
 chloroform.  Bathe the frosted parts in
 warm water,  and rub the ointment on by the fire. 
 
 
  TO STOP THE FLOW OF BLOOD. Bind the cut
with  cobwebs  and  brown sugar, 
pressed on like lint, or with the fine dust of  tea. 
When the blood ceases to flow, apply  laudanum.  
  
 
  CURE FOR WASP STING. Make a poultice of
 saleratus water  and  flour, 
and bind on the sting. For a bee sting, apply sliced  raw
onion.  
 
 
  CURE FOR SPRAINS. Beat up an
 egg  to a thick paste with  fine
salt;  spread it on a cloth, and bind on the part affected. Renew
occasionally. 
 
 
  TO REMOVE TAR FROM THE HANDS OR CLOTHING. 
 Bub 

well with  clean lard,  and afterward wash with
 soap  and  warm water.  
 
 
  TO REMOVE DISCOLORATION BY BRUISING. Apply
a cloth, wrung out of very  hot water,  and renew
frequently, until the pain ceases. 
 
 
  TO CLEANSE THE HAIR. Beat up the
 yolk of an egg,  with a pint of  soft
water;  apply it warm; rub well, and afterward rinse with
 clean soft water.  
 
 
  CAMPHOR ICE. 
 Mrs. Wm. Craighead. One ounce of
 white wax;  two of
 spermacetti,  and one of  gum
camphor,  well pulverized. Put all in a  tin
cup,  and nearly cover with  olive oil;  put
it on the  stove  and let simmer for fifteen minutes, but
not boil. 
 
 
  COLOGNE. 
 Mrs. J. R. Young. Three ounces of
 oil of burgamont;  two of
 lemon;  two of  lavender; 
 rose,  one hundred and twenty-eight drops;
 alcohol,  two gallons; twenty-eight drops
 nevoli.  
 
 
  COLD CREAM. One ounce of  rose
water;  one half ounce of  spermacetti;  one
drachm of  white wax,  and fourteen drachms of
 almond oil.  Melt the last
three in a  china cup,  in  hot
water;  then add the  rose water 
gradually. 
 
 
  SALVE. 
 Mrs. W. C. Four ounces of
 mutton tallow;  two of
 beeswax;  one of  rosin,  and
one half ounce of  gum camphor.  Simmer well together;
take off the fire, and then add one gill of  alcohol. 
Good for all kinds of sores and wounds. 
 
 
  BROWN SALVE. Two pounds of
 mutton tallow;  put in as many  gympson
(Jamestown weed)  and  plantain leaves  as
possible; fry, until they crimp up, and then strain; to this add about two
tablespoonsful of  tar;  let it boil up; then pour it
into the vessel in which it is to be kept, and let cool. 
 
 
  EXCELLENT LINIMENT. One ounce of
 spirits turpentine;  two of  olive
oil;  one of  spirits camphor,  and two of
 spirits ammonia.  
 
 
  EXCELLENT LINIMENT FOR CUTS. Take four
ounces of  balm gilead buds,  and steep them two or
three days in one quart of  alcohol;  then strain off
the liquor, and add to it three ounces of  turpentine; 
four of  gum camphor;  three of  oil of
arganum,  and two of  sweet oil.  Is good
for either man or beast. 
 
 
  CURE FOR A FELON. Take  rock
salt,  and heat it in the oven; then pound it fine, and mix it with
 turpentine,  equal parts; put it on a cloth, and wrap
around the part affected; as it dries out, make a fresh application, and so on
until cured. 
 
 
  LEY POULTICE. Tie a tablespoonful of
 wood ashes  in a rag and boil it in one pint of
 water  fifteen minutes; take out the
 ashes  and thicken with
 corn meal.  Stir in a teaspoonful of fresh
 lard;  spread on a cloth and apply warm. 
 
 
  CREAM POULTICE. Put to boil one teacupful
of  cream;  mix two tablespoonsful of
 flour  in  milk  and stir into
the  boiling cream.  
 
 
  
 LILLY 

ROOT POULTICE. Pound the roots of the  sweet white
lilly,  and put them on to boil in  rich
milk;  when soft, thicken with  bread
crumbs.  This is a most valuable poultice for a gathering. 
 
 
  HOP POULTICE. Boil a handful of
 hops  in a pint of  water  until
very soft; then thicken with  corn meal.  It is good for
a sore throat or swelled face. 
 
 
  POTATO POULTICE Is said to be better than
one made of bread; is more efficacious; keeps heat longer, and can be reheated,
if necessary. The  potatoes  are pared, boiled and
mashed fine; put into a thin muslin cloth, and applied quite moist, and as warm
as the patient can bear it. 
 
 
  FOR KEEPING CIDER. 
 Mrs. L. A. Tenny. One quart of
 milk;  one pound of best
 mustard  (in box); one full barrel of
 cider,  and four extra gallons. As it ferments fill it
up until it becomes quiet; then rack it off; put it in a  clean
barrel  and set it in the cellar. 
 
 
  TO PRESERVE MILK. Put a small piece of
 horse-radish  into a pan of
 milk  and it will keep it sweet. 
 
 
  PRESERVING BUTTER. Take two parts of the
best  table salt;  one part of
 sugar,  and one part of
 salt-petre;  blend the whole completely. Take one ounce
of the composition for one pound of  butter;  work it
well into a mass; then pack it solid into a  stone
jar.  
 
 
  TO KEEP BUTTER. 
 Mrs. A. C. Coburn. Make a
 brine of rock salt  that will bear up an egg. Boil, and
skim it well; pour into a clean vessel to cool. Then pour off into a
 stone or wooden vessel  that has not been used for any
thing else; tie up rolls of  butter  in cloths and drop
in the  brine.  Be careful to keep the vessel covered,
and the  butter  under the
 brine.  
 
 
  FOR KEEPING PICKLES IN BRINE. 
 Mrs. G. Arnold. Wash them clean. Put
into the bottom of a  cask  one half inch of
 dry salt;  then a layer of
 pickles;  then a layer of  salt 
(no water). Put a board on, and a light weight to keep them down; they will
draw their own  brine.  
 When wanted for use, put the  pickles  into a
 porcelain kettle;  not more than half full; fill up with
 cold water;  cover and set it on top of the stove; stir
the  pickles  frequently; when almost boiling, pour off
the  water  and fill up as before. Repeat this process
several times, or until the  salt  is extracted; put a
small lump of  alum  in the last
 water  with part  vinegar; 
throw that away and boil  vinegar  with any
 spice  you desire, and when cold put in the
 pickles.  They will be ready for use in a few days. 
 
 
  CURING HAMS. 
 Mr. Prugh. As soon as the
 hams  are cut and ready, rub them thoroughly with a
mixture of  salt  and
 saltpetre,  dry, in the proportion of three
tablespoonsful of  salt  and one tablespoonful of
 saltpetre (pulverized)  to four
 hams.  Let them lie for twenty-four hours; then put
them down into a tub and cover them well with
 brine  strong enough to bear an egg. Leave the
 hams  in this liquor for five weeks; then take them out
and wash off with  warm water.  Have ready plenty of
 ground black pepper  and rub the  whole
ham  well with it, especially on the cut sides; rub it very thick,
and in any little cracks and about the bone. Then hang up and smoke with green
sugar-tree wood. 
 
 
  TO SUGAR CURE HAMS. For one hundred pounds
of  meat  take five pounds of
 sugar;  two ounces of  pulverized
saltpetre,  and seven pints of  salt.  Rub
the  hams  first with the
 saltpetre  and then with the
 sugar;  then pack them in a
 meat-tub  and let them remain one week; rub
 salt  into them and pack them again in the same tub.
They will be ready for the  smoke-house  in from four to
six weeks, depending upon the size of the  hams.  The
position of the  hams  ought to be changed several times
so that all will be equally salted. 
 
 
  TO CURE TONGUES. Wet each
 tongue  with  molasses;  rub on
it a teaspoonful of  pulverized saltpetre,  and as much
 salt  as will stick to it, besides putting a little
loosely in the  cask.  Let them lie three weeks in
 brine,  turning frequently, then rinse off and hang up
to dry. 
 
 
  TO PRESERVE EGGS. One heaping pint of
 salt;  one scant pint of  lime, 
and six quarts of  water.  Let the
 pickle  stand a few days, stirring it occasionally;
drop the  eggs  in carefully without cracking them. They
must be fresh. 
 
 
  KEEPING EGGS. One and one half pints of
 lime,  and five cents worth of  beef
suet.  Slack the  lime;  then add one and
one half gallons of  water.  Render out the
 suet  and put with it; let all come to a boil. Have a wire ladle; dip a few
 eggs  at a time in the boiling solution, for a minute;
then lay them on something to dry; then pack away in a box, in either sawdust
or bran. 
 
 
  TO PRESERVE SAUSAGE. Heat
 ground sausage meat  slowly in a tin pan or kettle,
while mixing in the  salt, 
 sage  and  pepper;  not
permitting it to cook or burn. When thoroughly mixed and while hot, put in a
tight jar and pour  melted lard  over the top one half
inch thick. Keep it in a cool place. For use during the summer. 
 
 
  WASHING FLUID. 
 Mrs. W. R. S. A. Take two pounds of
 potash;  put it in an earthen vessel and add two
gallons of  boiling rain water;  one ounce of
 salamonia,  and one ounce of  salts of
tartar.  Put them in an  earthen vessel;  add
one quart of  boiling rain water,  and let stand
twenty-four hours. Then strain all through a flannel bag; put together in a
stone jug and cork tight. Have the  water  in the boiler
near boiling; then put in one teacupful of the fluid and use less soap. After
the clothes have been well washed through one  water, 
put them in and boil for half an hour. Then rub the clothes out of the boil and
rinse; for each boiler of clothes after the first, use only half the quantity
of the fluid. 
 
 
  CLEANSING FLUID. Two drachms of
 chloroform;  one half ounce of  sal
soda;  one half ounce of  alcohol;  two
ounces of  white castile soap;  two and one half ounces
of  aqua ammonia;  cut the soap fine and dissolve it in
one gallon of  soft water;  strain it and then add the
other ingredients. This fluid will remove grease and spots from any fabric. 
 
 
  CLEANSING CREAM. Three ounces of
 castile soap,  and one of
 borax;  dissolve together, in one quart of
 rain water,  over the fire. When dissolved, add four quarts more of  cold
water;  then add the  spirits : four ounces
of  alcohol;  three of  ammonia; 
two of ether, and one of  glycerin.  This is nice to
take out grease, paint, &#38;c, from all materials. 
 
 
  HARD SOAP. Pour four gallons of
 boiling water  on six pounds of  sal
soda  and three pounds of  unslacked lime. 
Stir and let stand over night; pour off carefully and add six pounds of
perfectly  clean grease;  boil two hours, stirring most
of the time. If it does not seem thick enough, put another pailful of
 water  on the settlings; stir well, and when settled,
drain off carefully and add to the mixture as is required; try it by taking a
little out to cool. When ready to take off the fire, stir in one handful of
 salt;  rinse out a tub with  cold
water;  put the soap into it and let stand until solid; then cut
into strips and lay on a board to dry. 
 
 
  SODA ASH SOAP. 
 Mrs. W. R. S. Ayres. To five pounds of
 soda ash,  take four pounds of  unslacked
lime;  eight gallons of  rain water,  and
fifteen pounds of  grease.  Put
 lime,   soda,  and
 water,  into a kettle and boil twenty minutes; then
pour out into a tub, and let it stand all night; in the morning, dip the clear
 water  off carefully; put into a kettle; add the grease
(cleaned), and boil one hour; then dip it out into tubs to cool. Be careful not
to get any of the  lime  from the bottom of the
kettle. 
 
 
  SOFT SOAP. 
 Mrs. Eliza Pierce. Fifteen pounds of
 clean grease;  fifteen pounds of  crude
potash.  Put the  potash  in a bucket of
 boiling water  to dissolve; put the grease into a
barrel and pour the  potash water  over it; every day
add a bucket of  hot water  until the barrel is full.
Stir well each time. 
  
 
  A HINT TO THE LAUNDRESS. Take some
 beeswax  and tie it in a piece of  white
cotton cloth.  When ironing starched linen rub the wax over the
 iron  once or twice; then over the cleansing cloth to
make sure there is nothing on the iron to soil the clothes; this will prevent
the  starch  from rolling, and imparts a gloss to the
linen. 
 A little  salt  sprinkled in
 starch  while boiling, and a  sperm
candle  stirred around in it a few times, will keep it from
sticking. 
 A large spoonful of  alum  stirred into a hogshead of
 muddy water  will so purify it that in a few hours the
dirt will sink to the bottom. 
 
 
  TO WASH BLANKETS. Put two large
tablespoonsful of  borax  and one pint bowl of
 soft soap  into a tub of  cold
water;  when dissolved, put in a pair of blankets and let them
remain over night. Next day rub and drain them out; rinse thoroughly in two
waters and hang them out to dry. Do not wring them. 
 
 
  TO WASH BROWN HOLLAND CHAIR COVERS. After
being washed in the usual manner, they must be rinsed at the last in
 water  in which some hay has been boiled. This will
restore the color that has been washed out. It is also good for crumb cloths
and covering for stair carpets. 
 Straw matting should always be washed in  salt  and
 water  and wiped dry with a coarse towel. It will
prevent its turning yellow. 
 
 
  TO CLEAN LIGHT KID GLOVES. Take a flannel
rag; rub on  soap  and dip in
 milk,  wetting lightly; rub the glove while on your
hand. 
  
 
  WASHING SILK. 
 Miss Maggie Connelly. Mix together one
tablespoonful of  molasses;  two tablespoonsful of
 soft soap,  and three of
 alcohol;  add to this one pint of  hot rain
water;  lay your silk on a bare table and rub on the mixture with a
small clothes brush. Have ready a tub of  luke-warm rain
water;  dissolve five cents worth of  white
glue  and put in the tub of  water.  As you
clean each piece of silk, throw it in the  water  and
let it lay until you have finished; then dip each piece up and down in the
 water  but do not wring it. Hang it up to dry by the
edges, and iron it before it is quite dry. 
 
 
  CLEANING SILK. Pare and slice three
 potatoes  (very thin); pour on one half pint of
 water  and add an equal quantity of
 alcohol.  Sponge the silk on the right side, and, when
half dry, iron on the wrong side. 
 
 
  FOR RENOVATING SILK. 
 Mrs. McVey. Take an old kid glove;
dark colored, if the silk is dark; light, if the silk is light. Tear it in
pieces; put it in a tin-cup, and cover with  water.  Set
it on the  stove  and let it simmer until the kid can be
pulled into shreds. Take a cloth or sponge; dip it in this
 water;  rub it over the silk and iron immediately. This
process will cleanse and stiffen old silk and give it the appearance of
new. 
 
 
  TO CLEAN BLACK DRESSES. Two tablespoonsful
of  
 amonia 

  to one half gallon of  water.  Take a
piece of black cloth and sponge off with the preparation; and afterwards with
 clean water.  
 
 
  FOR CLEANING ALPACA. 
 Miss Sidney Sims. Put the goods into a
boiler half full of  cold rain water;  let it boil for three minutes. Have ready a pail of
 indigo water  (very dark with indigo), and wring the
goods out of the  boiling water,  and place in the
 indigo water.  Let remain for one half hour; then wring
out and iron while damp. 
 
 
  TO REMOVE INK STAINS. While an ink spot is
fresh, take  warm milk  and saturate the stain; let
stand a few hours; then apply more fresh  milk;  rub it
well and it will soon disappear. If the ink has become dry, use
 salt  and  vinegar  or
 salts of lemon.  
 
 
  TO REMOVE FRUIT STAINS FROM TABLE
LINENS. Spread the stained parts over a large bowl and pour on
 boiling water.  Repeat several times before putting
into  soap suds.  
 
 
  TO CLEAN STRAW HATS. Make a paste of
pounded  sulphur,  and  cold
water;  wet the hat, and cover it with the paste, until the straw
can not be seen; rub hard, and hang the hat where it will dry; then rub the
 sulphur  off with a brush, until the straw looks
white. 
 
 
  TO CLEAN BOTTLES. Put them into a kettle of
 cold water,  with some  wood
ashes,  and boil; then rinse in  clean soft
water.  
 
 
  TO KILL MOTHS IN CARPETS. Wring a coarse
cloth out of  clean water;  spread it smoothly on the
part of the carpet where moths are suspected to be, and iron it with a hot
 iron.  The steam will destroy the moth and eggs. 
 
 
  TO PRESERVE FURS FROM MOTHS. Moths deposit
their eggs in the early spring, and that is the time to attend to furs. Beat
them with a  light rattan,  and air for several hours;
then comb with a  clean comb,  carefully; wrap them up in
 newspapers,  perfectly tight, and put in a  close linen bag, or cedar
chest.  Examine them several times during the summer, and each time
repeat the combing. 
 
 
  TO DESTROY
COCKROACHES.  Pulverized borax,  scattered
about where they are, will banish them effectfully. 
 
 
  TO DESTROY BEDBUGS. Mix together one ounce
of  corrosive sublimate;  one of  gum
camphor;  one pint of  spirits turpentine, 
and one of  alcohol.  Put in a bottle; apply with a
feather. Rank poison--be very careful. 
 
 
  TO CLEAN PAINT. Smear a piece of flannel in
 common whiting,  mixed to the consistency of common
paste, in  warm water.  Rub the surface to be cleaned,
quite briskly, and wash off with  warm soft water. 
Grease spots will, in this way, be easily removed, and the paint retain its
brilliancy unimpaired. 
  Wood ashes,  and  common
salt,  wet with  water,  will stop the
cracks of a  stove,  and prevent the smoke from
escaping. 
 
 
  TO PREVENT METALS FROM RUSTING. Melt
together three parts of  lard,  and one of
 resin,  and apply a very thin coating with a brush. It
will preserve  stoves and grates  from rusting through the
summer. 
 
 
  TO CLEAN STEEL OR IRON. One ounce of
 soft soap,  and two ounces of
 emery,  made into a paste. Rub the articles for
cleaning with wash leather. It will give a good polish. 
 
 
  TO REMOVE RUST FROM STEEL. Rub well with
 sweet oil;  let it remain two days; then rub with
 pulverized lime.  
  
 
  TO TAKE OUT IRON RUST. To one gallon of
 buttermilk,  add a large handful of  grated
horse-radish;  let the goods remain in the
 milk  from twelve to twenty-four hours, rubbing
occasionally; then wash out in  clean water.  
  Another way is to rub the spots of rust with  oxalic
acid,  mixed in a little  water,  and expose
to a hot sun.  
 
 
  RUBBER CEMENT. Shreds of  india
rubber, or gutta percha,  dissolved in  refined
turpentine,  will make a good cement for rubber shoes, shoe soles,
&#38;c. 
  Plaster of Paris,  stirred into the
 white of an egg,  tolerably thick, makes a strong
cement for glass and china. 
 
 
  TIN POLISH. Six cups of
 water;  five tablespoonsful of  nitric
acid;  one tablespoonful of  emery,  and two
of  pumice stone.  
 
 
  SILVER POLISH. Four ounces of
 paris white,  with one pint of  hot
water;  put it over the fire, and let come to a boil; when cool,
add one ounce of  amonia.  
 
 
  FOR VARNISHING GILDED FRAMES. Take pure
 white alcoholic varnish,  such as is used for
transferring engravings. Apply with a  soft brush.  The
frames can afterwards be cleansed with a damp cloth without injury. 
 
 
  VARNISH FOR GRATES. Take one tablespoonful
of  sugar,  and one half teacupful of
 vinegar.  Mix, and apply with a cloth. 
 
 
  SWEETENING KITCHEN SINKS. One half pound of
 copperas,  and one quart of  pulverized
charcoal,  dissolved in two gallons of
 water.  Heat the mixture to nearly a boiling point, and
pour a quart of it or more at one time down the
sink pipe. This mixture will remove strong, disagreeable odors from either
 glass or earthen vessels,  by simply rinsing them
thoroughly with it. 
 
 
  TO MAKE COLORS PERMANENT. Three gills of
 salt,  in four quarts of  boiling
water.  Put the calicoes in while hot, and let them remain until
cold. 
  Alum, or vinegar,  is good to set colors of red, and
green. 
 
 
  TO COLOR BLACK. To every pound of goods,
take one ounce of  extract of logwood;  one ounce of
 blue vitriol.  Put the blue vitriol in sufficient
 water  to cover the goods without corroding, or it will
spot; let it boil; have the goods clean and free from grease; wet thoroughly
before you put them in; let them simmer twenty minutes; then take them out and
hang up to air. Dissolve the  extract of logwood  and
put it in the kettle with the  vitriol;  put back the
goods and let them simmer as before, twenty minutes. Take out the goods; let
them dry, and soak in  sweet milk  over night; wash
thoroughly next day in  soap suds.  
 
 
  LYE COLOR. To eight pounds of
 yarn,  take one pound of
 coperas  and as much  water  as
will cover the yarn; bring the  water  to a boil; put
the  copperas  in, and let it be well dissolved; then
pour it out in a tub; put the yarn in, and let it remain one half hour; take
weak lye, as much as will cover the yarn, and bring it to a boil; take the yarn
out of the  copperas water,  and let it air one half
hour; then put into the  lye  one half hour; repeat the
process, until the color is sufficient. Wash well in  hard
water;  then in  hard soap suds  soak one
half hour; afterward, wash in  hard water.  
 
 
 
 
  
 RELIABLE ARTICLES FOR THE HOUSEHOLD. E. R.
DURKEE &#38; CO'S 
 Select Spices, Strictly Pure. 
 These are not only absolutely pure, but are ground from the finest species
of whole spices which they can import; the choiceness of the variety being
always considered as more important than the cost, hence they excel all others
both in flavor and strength. 
 Ask for their Select Spices, and see that the word SELECT, their trade mark
of the Gauntlet, and signature are upon each package. 
 E. R. DURKEE &#38; CO'S 
 Yeast or Baking Powder. 
 The cheapest, best, and healthiest LEAVENING in the world. Makes light,
sweet, digestible and nutritious bread, biscuit, cakes, pastry, puddings, etc.,
without fermentation. Perfectly pure, and so strong that two teaspoonsful
suffice for a quart of flour. 
 E. R. DURKEE &#38; CO'S 
 Flavoring Extracts. 
 The superiority of these extracts consists in their strength, purity, and
richness of flavor. They are true to their names, carefully and intelligently
prepared, and so highly concentrated that a small quantity suffices; hence they
are cheaper than others where quantity rather than quality is considered. 
 E. R. DURKEE &#38; CO'S 
 Challenge Sauce. 
 Pronounced by connolsseurs unqualifiedly the best, and at the same time a
"perfect Sauce" for table use. It is cheaper than the English, and no dearer
than the disgusting trash put up in this country and sold as Sauces. 
 E. R. DURKEE &#38; CO'S 
 Salad Dressing. 
 A ready-made, delicate, and delicious dressing for lobster, chicken, and all
other kinds of salads, cold meats, etc. No epicure can possibly produce a
dressing of equal merit with such condiments as are ordinarily at his
command. 
 E. R. DURKEE &#38; CO'S 
 Also manufacturers of the following articles, so long and favorably known to
the public, the excellence of which will be fully maintained. 
 
  LEMON SUGAR or CONCENTRATED LEMONADE;  WASHING BLUE for blueing clothes;  GINGERINE or ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER;  GENUINE INDIAN CURRY POWDER;  MIXED
SPICES (whole) for Pickles;  CORN STARCH,  FARINA TAPIOCA,} For Puddings, &#38;c.  WASHING CRYSTAL, for the laundry;}  CREAM TARTAR;
BI-CARB. SODA; SALERATUS, etc.   
 All of which are sold by the most respectable dealers in fine Groceries, 

 Fruits, etc., nearly everywhere.  
  
 COLGATE &#38; COMPANY'S 
 CASHMERE BOUQUET. 
 Registered and Patented Trade Mark. 
 Colgate &#38; Co.'s new PERFUME for the HANDKERCHIEF, "Cashmere Bouquet,"
will be appreciated by all who have enjoyed the delightful fragrance of their
Toilet Soap of the same name, which has become so universally popular. 
 COLGATE &#38; COMPANY'S 
 PERFUMES FOR THE HANDKERCHIEF. 
 
 
 
 White Rose, 
 Millefleurs, 
 Musk, 
 
 
 Ylang Ylang, 
 Jasmin, 
 New Mown Hay, 
 
 
 Violet, 
 Tea Rose, 
 Lily of the Valley. 
 
 
 Moss Rose, 
 Patchouly, 
 Rondeletia, 
 
 
 Rose Geranium, 
 Frangipanni, 
 May blossom, 
 
 
 Jockey Club, 
 West End, 
 Ess. Bouquet, 
 
 
 Lilium Auratum. 
 Souvenir, 
 Bouquet de Caroline, 
 
 
 Heliotrope, 
 Mignonette. 
 Sweet Pea. 
 
  
 COLGATE &#38; COMPANY'S 
 CONCENTRATED 
 EAU-DE-COLOGNE. 
 Colgate &#38; Co.'s Concentrated Eau-de-Cologne is a most agreeable perfume,
and a refreshing stimulant in nervous head-ache, faintness, etc. 
 COLGATE &#38; COMPANY'S 
 LAVENDER FLOWER WATER. 
 COLGATE &#38; COMPANY'S 
 FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 
 SUPERIOR in PURITY and STRENGTH. 
 
 
 
 Vanilla, 
  
  Lemon, 
  
 Rose, 
  
  Orange, 
 
 
  
 Almond, 
  
 Ginger, 
  
 Celery. 
  
 
  
 Colgate &#38; Co.'s Flavoring Extracts are unequaled in purity and strength,
the same high standard of QUALITY being maintained in their preparation which
has made all articles of their manufacture so popular.  
  
 DOOLEY'S 
 YEAST POWDER! 
 Is now almost universally used in "the Kitchen, the Camp, the Galley." It is
not only the Best but the Cheapest Baking Powder, and is unequalled for the
production of elegant and wholesome 
 Rolls, Biscuits, Bread, Griddle Cakes, Waffles, Dumplings,
&#38;c. 
 Composed of the purest and best materials, and put up in tins, which are, to
all intents and purposes, impervious to the action of weather and time, it will
keep for years in any climate. To those who have never used it, we say give it
a fair taial, and our word for it you will thereafter use no other kind. Put up
in 1/4 lb., 1/2 lb., 1 lb. and 5 lb cans, actual weight. Sold generally by
Grocers, Ship-Chandlers and Dealers. 
 DOOLEY &#38; BROTHER, Propietors, 
 Wholesale Depot, 69 New Street, N. Y. 
 SCHEPP'S COCOANUT, 
 THE ONLY GENUINE. 
 For Pies, Puddings, Cakes,
Tarts, 
 Etc., Etc., Etc. 
 JOHN BOHLENDER, 
 BAKER &#38; CONFECTIONER, 
 No. 127 East Second Street, 
 DAYTON, O.  
  
 COLTONS SELECT FLAVORS OF THE Choicest
Fruits and Spices. 
 Lemon, Vanilla, Orange, Rose, Almond, True Cinnamon, Peach,
Jamaica Ginger, Nutmeg, Clove, Celery, Wintergreen, etc. 
 Those who wish the Best and those who wish to Economize seek them for their
strict Purity, rich Flavors, and unequaled Strength. They make delicious Ice
Cream. They make excellent Pastry. They are an important part in Custards,
Blanc Mange and other Cookery. Many dealers who have for years sold other
Flavoring Extracts, called best, TREBLE THEIR SALES with COLTON'S SELECT
FLAVORS, and place them in the front rank, as acknowledged 
 THE FINEST IN THE MARKET. 
 Sold in Dayton, Ohio, by JOHN F. EDGAR, 32 N. Main St., and by dealers in
Choice Flavoring Extracts. 
 HENRY MAILLARD, 
 Celebrated Confectioner, 
 
  Wholesale, 619 and 621 Broadway.  Retail, 1097 Broadway,
under 5th Av. Hotel, Madison Sq.  Factory, Nos. 116 &#38; 118 W.
25th St., 3 doors from 6th Av.   
 NEW YORK. 
 JOHN F. EDGAR, 
 WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 
 Choice Groceries of all Kinds, 
 FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC FRUITS, 
 CHINA, GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
 No. 32 North Main St., - DAYTON, O.  
  
 ASK YOUR GROCER FOR 
 AMERICAN 
 BONELESS 
 SARDINES. 
 They have received Diplomas for their merit wherever exhibited. Pronounced
by all the cheapest luxury of the age; valuable and almost necessary to the
table, to travelers, or at pic-nics. Packed in the best olive oil of our own
importation, in tin boxes finished same as the imported, and are sold at less
than half the cost of French Sardines. Their delicious flavor and nutritious
qualities recommend them to all classes. Sold by all first-class grocers.
Wholesale by 
 THE AMERICAN SARDINE CO. 
 31 Broad Street, N. Y. 
 ESTABLISHED IN 1846. 
 GEO. M. DIXON, 
 DEALER IN 
 Pure Drugs, Chemicals, Pharmaceutical Preparations, And
Proprietary Goods of Established Reputation. Also, DRUGGIST SUNDRIES, 
 American, English, German, and French
Perfumes, Combs, Brushes, Soaps, Etc. 
 ONLY FIRST CLASS GOODS DEALT IN. 
 GEO. M. DIXON, SOUTH-EAST CORNER OF MAIN AND
SECOND STREETS, DAYTON, OHIO. 
 JACOB KEMPER'S 
 CONFECTIONERY, 
 FINE CAKE BAKERY 
 AND 
 Ice Cream Saloon, 
 No. 41 N. Main Street, - DAYTON, OHIO. 
 Fine French Candies of the most delicious varieties
constantly on hand and making fresh every day. Wedding parties and private
families supplied at short notice with the very finest Ice Creams,
Ices, Charlotte Russe, Large Cakes of any size or pattern. Mixed Fancy
Cakes, &#38;c., &#38;c.  
  
 ATMORE'S 
 CELEBRATED 
 Mince-Meat 
 FOR MINCE PIES. 
 Try it, and you will find it better, cleaner, and more reliable
even than your home-made. 
 Ask your Grocer for it. 
 LADIES! 
 ALWAYS USE THE 
 NATIONAL YEAST 
 TO MAKE Nice, Light, Sweet Bread. 
 THE BEST IN USE. 
 For Sale Everywhere. 
 
 
 
 I. VANAUSDAL. 
  
 M. HARMAN. 
 
  
 VANAUSDAL &#38; HARMAN, 
 IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 
 CARPETS, FLOOR &#38; TABLE OIL
CLOTHS, PAPER HANGINGS, 
 Curtain Materials, Window Shades,  Linen
Damasks, Sheetings, &#38;c. 
 23 S. Main Street, - - DAYTON, OHIO.  
  
 
 
 
 J. W. GREEN. 
  
 M. C. HERRON. 
 
  
 GREEN &#38; HERRON, Hardware
and Cutlery. 
 No. 38 North Main Street, 
 DAYTON, O. 
 FOR 
 WALL PAPERS, 
 FINE STATIONERY, 
 Pictures Framed to Order, 
 GOLD PENS, 
 Book and Magazine Binding, 
 CALL AT 
 Payne, Holden &#38; Co.'s, 
 40 Main Street, - - DAYTON, OHIO. 
 There are thousands whose habitual condition is one of languor
and debility. Thousands suffering from Indigestion, Dyspepsia, and troubles of
the Liver, Kidneys, and Bowels. What must they do? 
 The system needs renovating and strengthening. New vigor must
be infused in the digestive organs. The Stimulating, Regulating, Tonic
properties of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar will give a vigorous vitality to these
organs. They must try it. They will soon feel its influence, and must persevere
until the cure is complete. Keeping the Stomach and Bowels in a vigorous
condition with Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar is the best defense against all
diseases. The rich medicinal qualities of Tar it contains would alone excite a
regulating and strengthening action on the Stomach and Bowels, but there are 
 Vegetable Ingredients  of undoubted 
 Tonic  value combined with it, which cause it to 
 build up the weak and debilitated, rapidly restore exhausted
strength,  cleanse the Stomach, relax the Liver, 
 cause the food to digest,  and make pure blood,
removing Dyspepsia, Jaundice, Indigestion, and kindred complaints. Try one
bottle. 
 Ask for Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar.   
  
 CONTENTS. 
 PAGE. 
 SOUP. 
 Suggestions--Beef--Bean--Corn--Tomato--Okra Gumbo--Plain Gumbo--Plain Calf's
Head--Corn and Tomato--Green Pea--Pea--Macaroni--Noodles--Meat
Balls--Dumplings.... 
 9-13 
 FISH. 
 Boiled--Fried--Baked--Baked Codfish--Stewed Codfish--Fish Fritters--Clam
Fritters--Fish Sauce--Turbot a la Creme--Pickled Salmon--Lobster
Croquettes........  
 14-17 
 OYSTERS. 
  Soup--Steamed--Escalloped--Broiled--Fried--Oyster Pie--Oyster
Patties--Fritters--Croquettes--Chowder--Cove
Oysters...........................  
 17-20 
 MEATS. 
 Rules for Boiling Meat--Boiled Turkey--Roast Turkey--Plain Stuffing--Turkey,
Dressed with Oysters--Potato Stuffing--Apple Stuffing--Chestnut
Stuffing--Boiled Chicken Pie--Chicken Pie--Fricasseed Chicken--Turkey
Scallop--Turkey or Chicken Croquettes--Croquettes--Curried Chicken--Stewed
Chicken, with Oysters--Tomato Stewed Beef--Beefsteak Smothered in
Onions--Stuffed Beefsteak--Pounded Beef--Pressed Beef--Corn Beef Pickle--Corn
Beef--Spiced Beef--Veal Omelet--Veal Roll--Veal  
 PAGE.  
 Cutlets--Veal Croquettes--Scolloped Veal--Marbled Veal--Irish
Stew--Sweetbreads--Sweetbreads, with Tomatoes--Sweetbreads, with
Mushrooms--Fried Liver--Mock Terrapin--Dried Liver--Boiled Ham--Baked Ham--Ham
Sandwiches--Travelling Lunch--Sandwiches--Hash--Cracker Hash--Ham Balls--Fried
Patties--Scrambled Eggs, with Beef--Omelette, or French Egg Cake--French
Omelette................................  
 21-35 
 SAUCES AND CATSUPS. 
 Drawn Butter--Curry Powder--Celery Sauce--Tomato Catsup--Cold Tomato
Catsup--Tomato Mustard--Mixing Mustard--Cucumber Catsup--Walnut
Catsup--Mushroom Catsup--Wild Plum Catsup--Gooseberry Catsup--Currant
Catsup--Grape Catsup--Chili Sauce--Celery Vinegar--Celery Soy--To Keep
Horse-radish..........................................  
 36-40 
 VEGETABLES. 
 Suggestions--Baked Tomatoes--Broiled Tomatoes--Scalloped Tomatoes--Fried
Tomatoes--Sliced Tomatoes--Tomato Salad--Stewed Corn--Succotash--Green Corn
Pudding--Corn Oysters--Corn Fritters--Boiled Onions--Boiled Turnips--Green
Peas--Fricasseed Peas--String Beans--Cooking Beans--Baked Beans--Asparagus--New
Potatoes--Stewed Potatoes--Potato Balls--Potato Puffs--Potato Fritters--Potato
Croquettes--Saratoga Potatoes--Cabbage a la Cauliflower--Cream Cabbage--Steamed
Rice--Boiled Rice--Rice Croquettes--Fried Egg Plant--Egg Plant--Stuffed Egg
Plant--Oyster Plant--Fried Oyster Plant--Boiled Hubbard Squash--Baked
Squash--Spinach--Greens--Broiled Mushrooms--Stewed Mushrooms--Macaroni--Baked
Macaroni........................................................................... 

 41-51 
 SALADS. 
 Chicken Salad--Mayonnaise Salad Dressing--Salad Dressing--Mustard
Cabbage--Lettuce Salad--Celery Salad--Potato Salad--Celery Slaw--Cole
Slaw--Dressing for Hot Slaw...  
 52-55  
 PAGE. 
 PIES. 
 Pastry--Celebrated Puff Paste--Plain Pie Crust--Icing for Pies--Potato
Paste--Baked Apple Dumplings--Boiled Apple Dumplings--Strawberry
Shortcake--Peach Pie--Cream Pie--Lemon Cream Pie--Lemon Pie--Iowa Lemon
Pie--Scoth Pie--Cocoanut Pie--Cocoanut Custard--Custard Pie--A Good
Suggestion--Pumpkin Pie--Hasty Pumpkin Pie--Mock Apple Pie--Squash Pie--Orange
Pie--Pineapple Pie--Potato Pie--Sweet Potato Pie--Apple Custard Pie--Apple
Jonathan--Mince Meat (3)--Apple Mince Pie--Mock Mince Pie...............  
 56-64 
 PUDDINGS. 
 Boiling Puddings--Piccolomini Pudding--Boiled Bread Pudding--Cleveland
Biscuit Pudding--Cracker Pudding--Minute Pudding--Virginia Pudding--Cream
Pudding--Gelatine Pudding--Snow Pudding--Tapioca Snow Pudding--Gelatine Snow
Pudding--Fuller Pudding--Dorrit Pudding--Plum Pudding--English Plum
Pudding--Baked Indian Pudding--Tapioca Pudding--Baked Tapioca--Apple Tapioca
Pudding--Boiled Tapioca--Rice Pudding--Lemon Rice Pudding--Rice
Merangues--Fruit Rice Pudding--Farina Pudding--Florentine Pudding--Corn Starch
Pudding--Valise Pudding--Wapsie Pudding--Sponge Pudding--Batter Fruit
Pudding--Huckleberry Pudding--Seven-Cent Pudding--Dried Fruit Pudding--Eve's
Pudding--Merangue Pudding--Young America Pudding--Jelly Cake Pudding--Savoy
Pudding--Spanish Charlotte--Tipsey Charlotte--Lemon Pudding--Cocoanut
Pudding--Rich Cocoanut Pudding--German Chocolate Pudding--Chocolate
Pudding--Orange Cheese
Cake........................................................  
 65-78 
 SAUCES. 
 Lemon Sauce--Cream Sauce--Pudding Sauce--Foam Sauce--Snow Sauce--Sauce for
Minute Pudding--Hard Sauce--White Sauce--Sauce for Merangue Pudding--Vinegar
Sauce for
Puddings........................................................................... 

 78-80  
 PAGE. 
 CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 
 Float--Apple Float--Apple Coddle--Apple Omelet--Omelet Soufflee--Blanc
Mange--Rice Blanc Mange--Gelatin Blanc Mange--Corn Starch Blanc Mange--Peach
Blanc Mange--Chocolate Blanc Mange--Neapolitan Blanc Mange--Custard--Cream
Custard--Almond Custard--Indian Custard--Lemon Cream--Wine Cream--Hamburg
Cream--Italian Cream--Russian Cream--Spanish Cream--Tapioca Cream--Wine
Jelly--Chocolate Jelly--Frost Jelly--Orange or Lemon Gelatin--Charlotte
Russe--Chocolate Charlotte Russe--Soufflee de Russe--Lemon Sponge--Ice
Cream--Chocolate Ice Cream--Chocolate Cream--Frozen Pudding--Lemon Ice--Orange
Ice--Frozen Peaches--Frozen Strawberries...............................  
 81-91 
 CONFECTIONERY. 
 Taffy--Molasses Candy--Cream Candy--Chocolate Caromels--Candy
Drops--Cocoanut Candy--Butter
Scotch...............................................................  
 92-93 
 BREAD. 
 Yeast--Dry Yeast--Bread--Bread with Dry Yeast--Brown Bread--Rye Brown
Bread--Rice Bread--Corn Bread--Mississippi Corn Bread--Corn
Dodgers--Rusks.....................  
 94-98 
 ROLLS AND BISCUIT. 
 English Rolls--Saratoga Rolls--Parker House Rolls--Graham Breakfast
Rolls--Pounded Biscuit--Hunters' Biscuit--Soda Biscuit--Drop
Biscuit..............................  
 98-99 
 MUFFINS, ETC. 
 Rye Drop Cakes--Whigs--Muffins--Corn Muffins--Rice Muffins--Graham
Gems--Potato Cakes--Sally Lunn--Sally Lunn without Yeast--Breakfast
Puffs--Puffetts--Rosettes--Pop Overs--Yeast Waffles--Rice Waffles--Sour Milk
Waffles..............................  
 100-103  
 PAGE. 
 GRIDDLE CAKES, FRITTERS, ETC. 
 Buckwheat Cakes--Corn Batter Cakes--Hominy Fritters--Pancakes of Rice--Fried
Mush--Crumb Cakes--Pennsylvania Flannel Cakes--Lemon Turn Overs--Peach
Fritters--Spanish
Fritters.........................................................  
 103-105 
 CAKE. 
 Suggestions--Buckeye Cake--Pound Cake--Corn Starch Cake--Delicate Cake--Snow
Cake--Silver Cake--Gold Cake--French Bun--Liverpool Cake--Social Cake--Queen
Cake--Simple Sponge Cake--Sponge Cake--Cocoanut Sponge Cake--Cocoanut Pound
Cake--Cocoanut Cake--Almond Cake--Hickory-nut Cake--Watermelon Cake--Coffee
Cake--Erie Coffee Cake--Citron Cake--Currant Cake--Bread Cake--Fruit
Cake--Black Fruit Cake--Black Cake--Ginger Fruit Cake--Dried Apple Fruit
Cake--French Loaf Cake--Sponge Gingerbread--Black
Gingerbread--Gingerbread--Marble Cake--Chocolate Marble Cake....  
 106-115 
 LAYER CAKES. 
 Chocolate Cake--Springfield Almond Cake--Orange Cake--Lemon Cake--Ambrosia
Cake--Jelly Cake--Washington Cake--Railroad Cake--Rolled Sponge Cake--Sponge
Custard Cake--Sponge Cocoanut Cake--Cocoanut Cake--White Mountain
Cake.....................  
 115-119 
 SMALL CAKES. 
 Good Cookies--Aunt Betsey's Cookies--Canada Cookies--Cookies--Sand
Tarts--Ginger Nuts--Ginger Snaps--German Crack Cake--Nancy's Doughnuts--Raised
Doughnuts--Queen of Doughnuts--Excellent Crullers--Crullers--Drop Ginger
Cakes--Savory Cakes--Shrewsberry Cakes--Chocolate Jumbles--Chocolate
Puffs--Drop Jumbles--Cocoanut Jumbles--Almond Macaroons--Egg
Kisses--Merangues--Cocoanut Cakes--Madelines--Cream Cakes--Boston Cream
Cakes.............................................................................. 

 119-125  
 PAGE. 
 PICKLES AND RELISHES. 
 Suggestions--Cucumber Pickles--Gherkins--India Pickles--Yellow
Pickles--Stuffed Cucumbers--Cucumber Mangoes--Ripe Cucumber Pickles--Sliced
Cucumber Pickles--Green Tomato Pickles--French Pickles--Pickled Tomatoes--Green
Tomato Pickle--Walnut Pickle--Small White Onion Pickle--Onion
Pickle--Picalily--Chow-Chow--Picalily, without Tomatoes--Oil Pickle
Cabbage--Spiced Nutmegs--Watermelon Pickles--Pickled Plums--Sweet Grape
Pickle--Cherry Pickle--Sweet Pickle Cherries--Spiced Apples--Spiced
Currants--Sweet Pickled Peaches--Sweet Crab Pickle--To Pickle Pears
Whole--Nasturtions................................................................. 

 126-136 
 CANNED FRUITS AND VEGETABLES. 
 Canned Peaches and Pears--Brandy Peaches--Peaches for Pies--Preserved
Strawberries--Preserved Quinces--Blackberries--Crab Apples--Oranges--Green Gage
Plums--Citron Melon--Apple Sauce--Raspberry Jam--Jam--Peach Jam--Cherry
Jam--Orange Marmalade--Pineapple Jam--Tomato Jam--Canned
Corn..................................  
 137-142 
 DRINKS FOR FAMILY USE. 
 Chocolate--Coffee--Tea--Grape Wine--Elderberry Wine--Blackberry
Wine--Currant Wine--Currant Shrub--Raspberry Shrub--Raspberry
Vinegar--Strawberry Acid--Elderberry Syrup--Orange Syrup--Lemon
Syrup--Pineapple Syrup--Blackberry Cordial--Quince Cordial--Cherry
Cordial--Summer Drink--Cream Nectar--Egg Nogg--Beer--Spruce Beer--Harvest
Beer.................................................................  
 143-148 
 FOOD FOR THE SICK. 
 Beef Tea--Mutton Broth--Gruel--Egg Gruel--Panada--Barley Panada--Egg
Panada--Toast Water--Apple Water--Wine Whey--Buttermilk Whey--Tamarind
Whey--Mulled Wine--Mulled Jelly--Egg Nogg--Black Tea--Coffee--Chocolate--Irish
Moss Blanc Mange--Rye Mush--Oyster Toast--Boiled Custard--Meigs' Diet for
Infants--Dried Flour for Infants--Beef Tea for
Infants............................................................................ 

 149-153  
 PAGE. 
 MISCELLANEOUS. 
 Remedy for Diptheria--Cough Syrup--Remedy for Burns--Remedy for
Rheumatism--Dyspepsia--Fever and Ague--Ague Bitters--Antidote for Poison--To
Prevent Lockjaw--For Frosted Limbs--To Stop the Flow of Blood--Cure for Wasp
Sting--Cure for Sprain--To Remove Tar from the Hands or Clothing--To Remove
Discoloration by Bruising--To Cleanse the Hair--Camphor Ice--Cologne--Cold
Cream--Salve--Brown Salve--Excellent Liniment--Liniment for Cuts--Cure for a
Felon--Lye Poultice--Cream Poultice--Lily Root Poultice--Hop Poultice--Potato
Poultice--To Keep Cider--To Preserve Milk--To Preserve Butter--To Keep Pickles
in Brine--To Cure Hams--To Cure Tongues--To Preserve Eggs--To Preserve
Sausage--Washing Fluid--Cleansing Fluid--Cleansing Cream--Hard Soap--Soda Ash
Soap--Soft Soap--Hint to the Laundress--To Wash Blankets--To Wash Brown Holland
Chair Covers--To Clean Light Kid Gloves--To Wash Silk--To Clean Black
Dresses--To Clean Alpaca--To Remove Ink Stains--To Remove Fruit Stains from
Table Linen--To Clean Straw Hats--To Clean Bottles--To Kill Moths in
Carpets--To Preserve Furs from Moths--To Destroy Cockroaches--To Destroy Bed
Bugs--To Clean Paint--To Prevent Metals from Rusting--To Clean Steel or
Iron--To Remove Rust from Steel--To Take Out Iron Rust--Rubber Cement--Tin
Polish--Silver Polish--For Varnishing Gilded Frames--Varnish for
Grates--Sweetening Kitchen Sinks--To Make Colors Permanent--To Color Black--To
Color Red--Lye Color...............................................  
 154-169  
   
  
 The following 54 recipes are handwritten. 
 Lime Paint or Wash 
 1 lime - 5. po alum - 6 salt - 2. pearlash - 5 qts good
  - 6. pds   each fine &#38; put
it under the lime &#38; boil the water &#38; pour it over - stir it well. For
gallon put coperous in - if red take red lead or spanish brown - Put on with
white wash brush - the first coat on the thinnest - Don't put on in cold
weather - 
 Care for Rheumatism 
 1 table spoon lemon juice - 2 cold water with sugar, every hour - 
 Pickle for Hams 
 For 100. pds meat, take 4 qrts salt 2 oz salt petre - 2 pds sugar. - 
 Cough Medicine (as Ma makes it) 
 Elacampane root - Comfrey - spinach - hoarhound - Candy - 5 cents each - 2
qrts 
 milk  1 1/2 pint molasses - boil in porcelain kettle until
like syrup -  
 Wormwood good to keep away black ants (and moles) 
 To Fix a Turkey 
 Clean and stuff it the day before Christmas, rub the outside with vinegar,
hang it up till next day. 
 Make a dressing dry, crumb the bread fine, enrich it with butter or very
sweet salt pork boiled a few minutes and then taken out and chopped fine -
season with pepper and salt and a small quantity of thyme or summer savory. 
 Before putting in the oven, rub the outside with butter or suet dripping and
baste with its own gravy  
 Lemon foam for desert - 
 Yolks of 6 eggs - 1/2 lb pound sugar - juice &#38; grated rind of 2 lemons -
1/2 oz isinglass or gelatine - disolved in as little water as possible - simmer
over fire till it thickens, having beaten them well together - Whip the whites
to a stiff froth - add them to the mixture when cold - having beaten them in
roughly together. pour into moulds - 
 Snow pudding 
 1/2 box gelatine dissolved in a little cold water - pour over it 
 pts  boiling water stir it well till it is all melted - 1/2
  sugar. The juice of 2 lemons stirred into it - pour it
into a 2 qt glass dish &#38; set away to cool. This should be made day before
its wanted. Then make a custard by boiling 1 1/2 pts milk a teaspoon of maizena
or cornstarch dissolved in a little of the cold milk, a little
  Beat it 1 egg with the yolk of 4 others &#38; 3
tablespoons sugar - add these to the milk. while boiing - stir constantly &#38;
remove from the fire as soon as it begins to thicken - When cool flavor with
vanilla. Keep the whites of the eggs in a cool place beat them to a stiff froth
with a little powd sugar - when the jelly is stiff - pour over it the custard -
with the whites on top -   before sending to the
table  
 Pudding sauces - 
 cold sauce - Beat to a cream a 1/4 lb butter - add gradually 1/4 lb sugar -
beat till very white - add lemon juice or grated nutmeg on top - good with warm
apple plum or berry pudding 
 Plum sauce - 1 cup sugar - 1 table spoon of flour mixed with a little cold
water - a little salt. pour over it 1/2 pt boiling water - set it over the fire
- stir well - let it boil a few minutes - add 2 tablespoons butter just before
removing from the fire - Grate nutmeg on top - a little lemon juice or a gill
of wine may be added - 
 Lemon sauce - 1 cup sugar 1/2 cup butter - 1 egg 1 lemon juice &#38; grated
rind. 3 table spoons boiling water - put in a tin pail &#38; thicken over steam
- 
 Cold sauce - 1 cup sugar - butter size of an egg - beat to a cream - add a
glass of wine &#38; the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth - 
 Wine sauce - 1/4 lb butter - 1/4 lb sugar beaten to a cream boil a gill of
wine or brandy &#38; 1/2 gill of water mixed - pour it over the sugar &#38;
butter - send to table immediately -  
 Chocolate pudding - 
 1 cup sweet milk - 3 oz grated chocolate. scald the milk &#38; chocolate
together - when cold add the yolks of 5 eggs &#38; 1 cup sugar - Bake about 25
minutes - beat the whites with some powdered sugar pour over the top - brown in
the oven - &#38; eaten cold. 
 Fig pudding boiled or steamed 1/2 lb bread crumbs - 1/4 lb flour - two
teaspoons baking powder - teaspoon salt 1/2 lb suet - the juice &#38; rind of 1
lemon - 1 cup milk - 3 eggs - 1. lb figs - 1 gill of wine &#38; brandy mixed -
nutmeg or other spices 2 oz sugar - Chop the suet &#38; figs very fine - mix
them with flour &#38; bread crumbs - add the other ingredients - Boil in a
pudding bag or mould 4 hours - eaten with cold sauce 
 Indian pudding baked - 
 Boil 3 pts milk - stir into it 2 gills meal, &#38; let it cool - then add 4
eggs beaten - 2 cups brown sug a little salt &#38; butter - Bake 3 hours
-  
 Apple Meringue 
 Pare - slice - stew &#38; sweeten 6 tart juicy apples - Mash very smooth or
rub through a sieve - season with nutmeg or lemon peel - line a generous sized
plate with an under crust &#38; bake first - Whip the whites of 3 eggs with 3
table spoonsful pulverized sugar till it stands alone - fill the crust with
apple then spread the eggs over the top return to the oven till nicely brown
- 
 Eggs laid in cold water before breaking them will beat nicer - 
 Chocolate cream 
 1 small cup grated chocolate - 1 lb. sugar 1 qt milk - 1 box Cox's gelatine
soaked in 1/2 pt water 1 hour - Boil 4 minutes - then add 1 pt. rich cream
&#38; boil 1 minute - flavor with vanilla &#38; pour into molds - this makes
nearly 2 qts cream -  
 Lemon Sauce 
 The juice of a nice soft lemon some water - sugar till sweet enough &#38; a
little whole cinnamon Let this come to a boil - &#38; pour a little in a cup -
the well beaten yolks of 2 eggs - with the "eye" removed when you have the cup
nearly fill with the boiling sauce - (be sure &#38; stir with one hand while
pouring a little sauce in the cup till full) pour back in the pot set on the
stove let it come to a boil again stirring all the time - then remove
immediately &#38; put in the sauce   to get cold - Beat
the whites of the eggs very stiff with powdered sugar &#38; put on top of sauce
- do not pour the sauce over the pudding till just ready to eat it -  
 Pumpkin pie 
 Pare - cut in small bits to boil the day before pies are made - when tender
rub through the colander - add to 3 pts. strained pumpkin 5 eggs a little salt
1 pt sweet milk, sugar to taste - a little ginger extract of lemon bake in a
quick oven 
 Bread &#38; Apple pudding 
 Butter a pudding dish - place alternate layers of bread crumbs &#38; thinly
sliced apples - sprinkle sugar over each layer of apples - when the dish is
filled - let the top layer be of bread crumbs over which 2 or 3 table spoonsful
of melted butter should be poured Bake in a moderately hot oven from 3/4 to an
hour - do not let it burn on bottom - 
 Cottage pudding 
 1 cup sugar - 2 cups flour - nearly 1 cup cold water - 1 egg - butter size
of an egg - 2 teaspoons baking powder - salt - bake in a hot oven - Sauce - 1
cup sugar 1/3 butter mix thoroughly - 2 cups boiling water - tablespoonful corn

 startch 

beaten with butter &#38; sugar - after taking from stove add 1 well beaten egg
&#38; 1/2 lemon sliced -  
 Squash pie 
 Obtain a good Hubbard squash - saw into quarters &#38; bake 2 of these until
dry &#38; thoroughly done - scoop out the dry mealy part &#38; while warm add a
tablespoonful flour &#38; rub it well wetting as you go with a little milk.
This should be heated &#38; to this quantity of squash you will want 3 pts milk
- 2 or 3 eggs - a small tea cup sugar for each pie - beat the yolks &#38; sugar
together, adding for each pie 1 teaspoon ginger &#38; 1 of cinnamon - Line the
tins with a nice paste in which has been sifted a little baking powder. Beat
the whites to a stiff froth &#38; add lastly - do not bake in too hot an oven
as it will spoil the golden foam that comes on top -  
 French rolls 
 into 1 lb of flour rub 2 ounces butter &#38; the whites of 3 eggs well
beaten - add a tablespoonful of good yeast a little salt &#38; milk enough to
make a stiff dough - cover &#38; set it in a warm place till light which will
be an hour or more according to the strength of the yeast - Cut into rolls, dip
the edges into melted butter to keep them from sticking together &#38; bake in
a quick oven. 
 Brown Bread 
 3 handfuls corn meal - 2 of flour or Graham 1/2 cup sour milk 1/2 cup
molasses 1/2 teaspoon soda - Steam 2 hours - to be eaten warm but is good cold
-  
 Boiled Baked sweet potatoes 
 Boil til tender - then slice several times the long way of the potato -
place a layer of the slices on the bottom of an earthen dish - sprinkle lightly
with white sugar &#38; heavily with lumps of butter. Then another layer of
potatoes &#38; so on till you have the sugar &#38; butter for a top layer -
Bake 30 or 40 minutes - 
 Fried Tomatoes 
 Take large green tomatoes - cut off both ends, &#38; then cut up 1 in 3
slices - Have some butter in the frying pan - let it get hot - then roll the
tomatoes in flour, &#38; lay them in the pan - salt, pepper &#38; sprinkle a
little sugar on while frying cook till a nice brown. good dish for breakfast
-  
 Chicken Salad 
 Take the breasts of 2 chickens - 2 large bunches of celery &#38; 4 hard
boiled eggs - chop these separately fine - put together &#38; mix thoroughly.
Then make a gravy of 1 table spoon of mustard - 2 table spoons sugar 1 cup
vinegar &#38; 1/2 cup butter - pour hot over the salad - 
 Potato Salad 
 Take medium sized potatoes boil - let them get cold - then slice them - put
in a medium sized onion chopped fine - Take a tea cup 2/3 full best cider
vinegar, into which put a table spoonful of sweet oil - heat the vinegar &#38;
oil very hot - pour over the potatoes &#38; onions, &#38; stir all together
with a salad spoon &#38; let it get cold &#38; it is done -  
 Tomato Soup 
 To 1 pt. canned tomatoes or 4 large raw ones cut up fine add 1 qt boiling
water &#38; let them boil - then add 1 teaspoon soda when it will foam.
immediately add 1 pt sweet milk with salt, pepper &#38; plenty of butter - When
this boils add 8 small crackers &#38; serve - It tastes very much like oyster
soup - 
 Mutton Dinner 
 Take 3 lbs mutton cut in small pieces (if you skin mutton it looses its
strong flavor) Put it on the stove in cold water - when half done put in a tea
cup of rice - Pepper &#38; salt to taste - Have water enough for soup - make a
nice biscuit crust cut in diamonds &#38; 20 minutes before dinner drop them
around on the top of the soup &#38; cover very closely or steam if you prefer -
this with a nice dish of potato salad &#38; an apple pie makes a very good
dinner 
 stale bread good to put in a meat pie  
 Ammonia good for cleaning paint, wood, windows floor dishes spoons - put a
few drops in the dish water or a few drops on a sponge to wipe off the glass -
a tea spoon ful to a mop pail etc, etc, etc. 
 Ripe tomato will remove ink &#38; other stains from white cloth &#38; the
hands - 
 Whooping Cough remedy 
 1 pt crushed sunflower seeds - put in 1 qt water &#38; simmer to a pint -
add one pound loaf sugar &#38; 1/2 pt. brandy - Dose few drops to a spoonful
- 
 Apple Batter Pudding - 
 Half pt. milk - 2 eggs - flour to make a stiff batter - a little salt - Fill
a dish with sliced apples - then pour the batter over them - Steam 2 1/2 or 3
hours -  
 Seed Cake 
 1 cup of butter - 2 of sugar - 3 eggs 1/2 teaspoon soda disolved in a little
cold water 1 table spoon caraway seed - flour enough to roll out - Roll thin
with sugar instead of flour on the board &#38; cut in rounds. Bake in quick
oven - 
 For whitening the hands 
 a wine glass of cologne &#38; one of lemon juice - strained clear - Scrape 2
cakes of brown Windsor soap to a powder &#38; mix well in a mould - When hard -
fit for use 
 Cure for Small pox 
 1 ounce cream of tartar dissolved in a pt of boiling water - drank at
intervals when cold - a certain never failing remedy -  
 White cake 
 
  1 cup butter  2 " sugar  3 "
flour  1 " corn startch  1 " milk  2 tea
spoons B. Powder -   
 Whites of 8 eggs beaten to a stiff froth mix all but the eggs &#38; beat 3
quarters of an hour - add the eggs last - stirring carefully - It may be thin
but don't add any more flour - 
 Just half the above quantity good for layer cake with whipped cream between
- 
 A teaspoon of borax to every qt of 
 startch 

will prevent sticking to the iron &#38; add a polish - 
 infants clothes washed in Borax water better for the child - 
 "Boracic acid" -  
 Blackberry Wine (Rutledge) 
 To every gallon of bruised berries add one quart of boiling water - Let it
stand 24 hours - stirring occasionally then strain off the liquor into a cork -
To every gallon add 2 pds sugar - Cork tight &#38; let it stand until October
&#38; then its good to drink - 
 Cherry Bounce 
 3 pounds cherries 1 pd sugar - put in a jug and filled with whiskey, after
it is filled with cherries &#38; sugar of the above proportion. 
 Coral Frames 
 For 2 frames - 1 pd white wax - 2 oz vermillion - 5 cts Rozin - frame made
of hoop skirt &#38; raisin stems 
 Flour sprinkled over kerosene oil on a carpet &#38; floor let remain for a
week &#38; then brushed off will take out the oil -  
 Blackberry Wine 
 To 1 gallon berries add 2 pds sugar (brown) and one quart boiling water -
Mash the fruit, mix the sugar through with it. Then pour in the boiling water
and let stand 24 hours - 
 Currant Shrub 
 Boil currant juice and sugar in proportion of one lb sugar to 1 pint juice 5
minutes - stir constantly while cooling. When cold bottle it, use like
raspberry shrub. 1 or 2 spoonsful to a tumbler of water. 
 English Ginger Beer 
 Pour 4 quarts boiling water on 1 1/2 oz Ginger - 1 oz cream tartar. 1 pound
Brown sugar - 2 lemons sliced thin - Put in 2 gills yeast &#38; let it ferment
24 hours and bottle - It improves with keeping a few weeks unless in hot
weather - Its nice -  
 Soap for the hands &#38; face 
 1 lb bleached castile soap 4 oz - fresh sweet almond oil 6 oz - oatmeal -
Place on the stove in a kettle &#38; keep stirring till all the ingredients are
well incorporated - then let it cool &#38; it is ready for use - 
 another - use lemon juice &#38; powdered borax - 
 also another - take 1/2 oz powered alum the whites of 2 eggs mix together -
then add bran enough to make a thick paste - apply this once a day after
washing then after rubbing the hands together well for a few minutes wipe off
with a soft towel - 
 another - 1/2 lb mutton tallow - 1 oz camphor gum - 1 oz glycerine - melt
when   set away to cool - use every night  
 Borax good to put   for  
cloths - without boiling   2 or 3 tablespoons pulverized
- for each boiling oz water - 
 Polish for linen cuffs - 
 White wax 3 ounces - spermaceti 3 drachms - borax 6 ounces gum
  1 1/2 ounces - melt together with gentle heat - put a
piece size of a walnut into the starch - 
 Washing fluid 
 
 Disolve 

2 lbs- salsoda - then take 1 lb unslacked lime &#38; boil it awhile, then set
aside to settle - drain off - add water to the amt of 2 gallons - add pound
salsoda, set aside for use - the night before wash day find the clothes to soak
in warm soap suds in the morning put over your boiler - to the boiler 2/3 full
of water add   of the fluid - wring the clothes
  the tub boil 15 minutes, then
  
 End handwritten recipes.  
   
   
 
 
